Introductionxiii XIV xv xvi xvii xviii January 5, 1997Whoever finds and publishes this work shall be entitled to all proceeds. I ask only that my name take its rightful place. Perhaps you will even  prosper. If,  however,  you  discover  that readers are less than sympathetic and choose  to  dismiss this enterprise out of hand, then may I suggest you drink plenty of wine and dance in   the  sheets  of  your  wedding night, for whether you know it or not, now you truly are prosperous. They say truth stands the test of time. I can think of no greater  comfort  than  knowing  this  document failed such a test.xix xx xxi xxi.i xx.iii   Muss es sein?  The Navidson Record  II saw afilm today,  oh  boy ... - The BeatlesWhile enthusiasts and detractors will continue to empty entire dictionaries attempting to describe or deride it, "authenticity"  still  remains the word most likely to stir a debate. In fact, this leading obsession-to validate or invalidate the reels and tapes-invariably brings  up  a colJateraJ and more general concern: whether or not, with the advent of digital technology, image has forsaken its once unimpeachable hold on the truth. 1For the most part, skeptics call the  whole effort a hoax but  grudg- ingly admit The Navidson Record is a hoax of exceptional quality. Unfortunately out of those who accept its validity many tend to swear allegiance to tabloid-UFO sightings. Clearly it is not easy to appear credible when after vouching for  the  film's  verity,  the  discourse  suddenly  switches to why Elvis is still alive and probably wintering in the Florida Keys.2 One thing remains certain: any controversy surrounding Billy Meyer's film on flying saucers3 has been supplanted by the house on Ash Tree Lane.Though many continue to devote substantial time and energy to the antinomies of fact or fiction, representation  or  artifice,  document  or  prank, as of late  the  more  interesting  material  dwells  exclusively  on  the interpretation of events within the film.  This  direction  seems  more promising, even if the house itself, l.ike Melville's behemoth,  remains resistant to summation.Much like its subject, The Navidson Record itself is also uneasily contained-whether by category or lection. If finally catalogued as a gothic tale, contemporary urban folkmyth, or merely a ghost story, as  some have called it, the documentary will still, sooner or  later,  sl.ip  the  limits  of any  one of those genres. Too many important  things  in  The  Navidson  Record  jut out past the borders. Where one might expect horror, the supernatural, or traditional paroxysms of dread and fear, one discovers disturbing sadness, a sequence on  radioactive isotopes,  or  even  laughter  over  a  Simpsons episode.In the 17th  century,  England's  greatest  topographer  of  worlds satanic and divine warned  that hell was nothing less  than  "Regions  of sorrow, doleful shades, where peace/ And rest can never dwell, hope never1A topic more carefully considered in Chapter IX.2See Daniel Bowler's "Resurrection on Ash Tree Lane: Elvis, Christmas Past, and Other Non-Entities" published in The House (New York: Little Brown, 1995), p. 167-244 in which he examines the  inherent contradiction of any claim alleging resurrection as well as the existence of that place.30r for that matter the Cottingley Fairies, Kirlian photography, Ted Serios' thoughtography or AlexanderGardner's photograph of the Union dead.3comes/ That comes to all" thus echoing  the words copied  down  by  hell's most famous tourist: "Dinanzi a me nonjuor cose create/ Se non etterne, e io etterna duro./ Lasciate ogni speranza, voi ch'entrate."4Even today many people still feel The Navidson Record, in spite of all  its  existential  refinements  and  contemporary  allusions,  continues  to reflect those exact sentiments. In fact a few eager intellectuals have already begun to treat the film as a warning in and   of  itself,  perfectly  suited  for hanging whole above the gates of such schools as Architectonics, Popomo, Consequentialism, Neo-Plasticism, Phenomenology, Information Theory, Marxism, Bioserniotics, to say nothing of psychology, medicine, New Age spirituality,  art  and  even  Neo-Minimalism.   Will   Navidson,   however, remains stalwart in his insistence that his documentary should be taken literally. As he himself says, "... all this, don't take it as  anything  else  but this. And if one day you find  yourself  passing  by  that  house,  don't  stop, don't slow down, just keep going. There's nothing there. Beware."Considering how the film ends, it is not surprising that more than a handfu l of people have decided to heed his advice.The Navidson Record did not first appear as it does today. Nearly seven years ago what surfaced was "The Five and a Half Minute Hallway" -a five and a half minute optical illusion barely exceeding the abilities of any NYU film school graduate. The problem, of course, was the accompanying statement that claimed all of it was true.In one continuous shot, Navidson, whom we never actually see, momentarily focuses on a doorway on the north  wall  of  his  living room before climbing outside of the house through a window to  the  east  of  that door, where he trips slightly in the flower bed, redirects the camera from the ground to  the  exterior  white  clapboard,   then  moves  right,  crawling  back inside  the  house  through a second  window, this  time  to   the   west   of  that doo r, where we hear him grunt slightly as he knocks  his  head  on  the  sill, eliciting light  laughter   from  those  in  the  room,  presumably  Karen,  his brother Tom, and his friend Billy Reston-though like Navidson,  they  too never appear on camera-before  finally  returning us  to  the  starting  point, thus completely circling the doorway and so proving, beyond a shadow of a doubt, that insulation or siding is the only possible thing this  doorway  could lead to, which is when all laughter stops, as Navidson's hand  appears  in frame and pulls open the door,  reveal,ing  a narrow  black  hallway  at  least  ten feet long, prompting Navidson to re-investigate, once again leading us on another circumambulation  of this  strange  passageway,  climbing  in  and  out of  the  windows,  pointing  the  camera  to  where  the  hallway  should  extend but finding nothing more than his own backyard-no ten  foot  protuberance, just rose bushes, a muddy dart gun, and the translucent summer air-in essence an exercise in disbelief which despite his best intentions still takes Navidson back inside to that impossible hallway, until as the camera begins451n an  effort  to limit confusion, Mr. Truant's footnotes will appear in Courier font while Zampano's will appear in Times. We also wish to note here that we have never actually met  Mr. Truant. All matters regarding the publication were addressed in letters or in rare instances over the phone. - The Editors4 to move closer, threatening  this time  to  actually  enter  it,  Karen  snaps, "Don't you dare go in there again, Navy," to which Tom adds, "Yeah, not such a hot idea," thus arresting Navidson at the threshold, though  he  still  puts his hand inside, finally retracting  and  inspecting  it,  as  if by  seeing alone there might be something more to feel, Reston wanting  to  know  if in fact his friend does sense something different, and Navidson providing the matter-of-fact answer which also  serves  as  the  conclusion,  however  abrupt, to this bizarre short: "It's freezing in there."Dissemination of "The Five and a Half Minute Hallway" seemed driven by curiosity alone. No one  ever  officially  distributed  it  and  so  it never appeared in film festivals or commercial film circles. Rather, VHS copies were passed around by hand, a series of progressively degenerating dubs of a home video revealing a truly bizarre house with notably very few details about the owners or for that matter the author of the piece.Less than a year later another short surfaced. It was even more hotly sought after than "The Five and a Half Minute Hallway" and resulted in some fervent quests for Navidson and the house itself, all of which, for one reason or another, failed. Unlike the first, this short was  not  a continuous shot, prompting many to speculate that the eight minutes making up "Exploration #4" were in fact bits of a much larger whole.The structure of "Exploration #4" is highly discontinuous, jarring, and as evidenced by many poor edits, even hurried. The first shot catches Navidson mid-phrase. He is tired, depressed and pale. "-days, I  think. And, I ... I don't know." [Drink of something; unclear what.] "Actually I'd like to burn it down. Can't think clearly enough to do it though." [Laughs] "And now ... this."The next shot jumps to Karen and Tom arguing over whether  or  not to "go in after him." At this point it remains unclear to whom  they  are referring.There are several more shots.Trees in winter.Blood on the kitchen floor.One shot of a child (Daisy) crying.Then back to Navidson: "Nothing but this tape which I've seen  enough times, it's more like a memory than anything else. And I still don't know: was he right or just out of his mind?"Followed by three more shots.Dark hallways. Windowless rooms. Stairs.Then a new voice: "I'm lost. Out of food.  Low on  water.  No sense of direction. Oh god ... " The speaker is a bearded, broad shouldered man with frantic eyes. He speaks rapidly and appears short of breath: "Holloway Roberts. Born in Menomonie, Wisconsin. Bachelor's from U. Mass. There's something here. It's following me. No, it's stalking me. I've been stalked by it for days but for some reason it's not attacking. It's waiting, waiting for something. I don't know what. Holloway Roberts. Menomonie, Wisconsin. I'm not alone here. I'm not alone."Thus bringing to an end this strange abstract which as the release ofThe Navidson Record revealed was sparingly incomplete.Then for two years nothing. Few clues about  who  any  of  these people were, though eventually a number  of photographers in the news5 community did recognize the author as none other than Will Navidson, the prize-winning photojournalist who won  the  Pulitzer  for  his  picture  of  a dying girl in Sudan. Unfortunately this discovery only  generated  a  few months  of  heated  speculation,  before,  in  the absence  of  press, corroboration, the location of the house or for that matter any comment by Navidson himself, interest died out. Most people just  wrote  it  off  as  some kind of weird hoax, or, because of the unusual conceit, an aberrant  UFO sighting.  Nevertheless  the  deteriorating dubs  did  circulate  and  in  some trendy academic circles a debate began: was the subject  a haunted  house? What did Holloway mean by "lost"? How could anyone  be  lost  in  a house for days anyway? Furthermore, what was someone  with  Navidson's credentials doing creating two strange shorts like these? And again, was this artifice or reality?Certainly a good deal of the debate was sustained by a bit of oldfashioned cultural elitism. People talked about the Navidson pieces because they were lucky enough to have seen them. Lee  Sinclair  suspects  a majority of professors, students, SoHo artists and avant-garde filmmakers who spoke-and even wrote-so  knowingly  about  the  tapes,  more  than  likely had never even viewed one frame: "There just weren't that many copies available. "6While" The Five and a Half Minute Hallway" and" Exploration #4" have been respectively called a" teaser" and a" trailer", they are also, in their own right, peculiar cinematic moments. On a purely symbolic level, they afford a vast potential for examination: the compression of space, the power of the imagination to decompress that space, the house as trope for the unlimited and the unknowable etc., etc. On a strictly visceral level, they provide ample shocks and curiosities. However, the most unnerving aspect about both pieces is their ability to convince us that everything really happened, some of which can be attributed to the verifiable elements (Holloway Roberts, Will Navidson et al.), but most of which must be chalked up to the starkness of the production-the absence of make-up, expensive sound tracks, or crane shots. Except for framing, editing, and in some cases sub-titles,7 there is virtually no room for creative intrusion.Who would have suspected that almost three  years  after  "The  Five and a Half Minute Hallway" began appearing on VHS, Miramax  would quietly release The Navidson  Record  in  a  limited  run  and  almost immediately unsettle audiences everywhere. Since  the  opening  three  years  ago last April8 in New York and  Los  Angeles,  The  Navidson  Record has been  screened  nationwide,  and  while  hardly a  blockbuster,  the  film continues to generate revenues  as  well  as  interest.  Film  periodicals frequently publish reviews, critiques  and  letters.  Books  devoted  entirely  to The Navidson Record now appear  with  some  regularity.  Numerous professors have made The Navidson Record required viewing for their seminars, while many  universities  already  claim  that  dozens  of  students from a variety of departments have completed doctoral  dissertations  on  the film. Comments and references frequently appear in Harper's, The  New Yorker, Esquire, American Heritage, Vanity Fair,  Spin  as  well  as  on  late night television. Interest abroad is equally intense. Japan, France and6Lee Sinclair's "Degenerate" in Twentieth Century Dub, Dub edited by  Tony  Ross  (New  York:  CCD Zeuxis Press, 1994), p. 57-91.7Arguably interpretive, especially in the case of Holloway's  garbled  patter  where  even  the  subtitles  appear as incomprehensible onomatopoeia or just question marks.6Norway have all responded with awards but to this day the spectral Navidson has yet to appear let alone accept any one of these. Even the garrulous Weinstein brothers remain unusually reticent about the film and its creator. it is."9Interview magazine quoted  Harvey  Weinstein as saying, "It  is  whatThe Navidson Record  now  stands  as  part of this country's cultural experience and yet in spite of the fact that hundreds of thousands of people have seen it, the film continues to remain an enigma. Some insist it must be true, others believe it is a trick on par with the Orson Welles radio romp The War of the Worlds. Others could care less, admitting that either way The Navidson Record is a pretty good tale. Still many more have never even heard of it.These days, with the unlikely prospect of any sort of post-release resolution or revelation, Navidson's film seems destined to achieve at most cult status. Good story telling alone will guarantee a healthy sliver of popularity in the years to come but its inherent strangeness will permanently bar it from any mainstream interest.9Mirjana Gortchakova's "Home Front" in Gentleman's Quarterly, v. 65, October 1995, p. 224.7 IIThe labours of men of genius, however erroneously directed, scarcely everfail in ultimately turning to the solid advantage of mankind.- Mary ShelleyTheNavidson Record actually contains two films: the one Navidson made,  which  everyone  remembers,   and   the   one   he   set   out   to   make, which very few people ever detect. While easily  overshadowed  by  the finished film, the filmmaker's original intentions provide an early context inwhich to view the peculiar properties of the house later on. AprilIn many ways, the opening  of  The  Navidson  Record,  shot  back  in of 1990, remains one of the more disturbing sequences because it so effectively denies itself even the slightest premonition about what will  soon take place on Ash Tree Lane.Not once during those initial  minutes  does  Navidson  indicate  he knows anything about the impending nightmare he and his entire family  are about to face.  He is  wholly  innocent,  and   the  nature  of  the  house,  at  least for a little while, lies beyond his imagination let alone his suspicions.Of course not everyone remains in accordance with this  assessment. Dr. Isaiah Rosen believes, "Navidson's  a fraud  from  frame  one and  his early posturing puts the entire  work  at  risk." 10  Rosen  assumes  the beginning is just a case of "bad acting" performed by  a  man  who  has already envisioned the rest. of the film. Consequently Rosen seriously undervalues the importance ofNavidson's initial intentions.All too often major discoveries are the unintended outcome of experiments or explorations aimed at achieving entirely different results. In Navidson's case, it is impossible to disregard his primary  goal,  especially since it served as progenitor or at the very least the "near origin" to all that followed. Rosen's presumptions 11 lead him to dismiss  the  cause  for  the result, thereby losing sight of the complex and rewarding relationship which exists between the two."It's funny," Navidson tells us at the outset. "I just want to create a record of how Karen and I bought  a small  house  in  the  country  and  moved into it with our children. Sort of see how everything turns out. No gunfire, famine, or flies. Just  lots  of toothpaste,  gardening  and  people  stuff.  Which is how I got the Guggenheim Fellowship and the NEA Media Arts Grant.10Isaiah Rosen, Ph.D., Flawed Performances: A Consideration of the Actors in the Navidson Opus(Baltimore: Eddie Hapax Press, 1995), p. 73.8Maybe because of my past they're expecting something different, but I just thought it would be nice to see how people move into a place and start to inhabit it. Settle in, maybe put down roots, interact, hopefully understand each other a little better. Personally, Ijust want to create a cozy little outpostfor me and my family. A place to drink lemonade on the porch and watch the sun set."is almost literally how The Navidson Record begins, with WillWhich Navidsonrelaxing on the porch of his small, old-style heritage house,of lemonade, watching the sun turn the first few minutes of enjoying a glassDespite Rosen's claim, nothing about him seems daytime into gold. or false. Nor does he appear to be acting. In fact he is a particularly deviousman, lean, attractive, slowly edging through his 40s, 12 disarmingly pleasant for all to stay in and explore the quieter side of ltle. determined once andhe succeeds, providing us with pristine glimpses of theAt least initially Virginia countryside,the rural neighborhood, purple hills born on thepast these establishing shots and focusing fringe of night, before moving moving into the house itself, unrolling pale more closely on the process ofrearranging furniture, unpacking crates, blue oriental rugs, arranging and pictures, including one of his own prize- replacing light bulbs and hanging winning photographs. this way,Navidson not only reveals how eachhas helped apply  his  or  her own personal texture.Navidson takes a break to interview his two children. TheseAt one point,shots are alsoimpeccably composed. Son and daughter bathed inlit faces framed against a cool backdrop of green sunlight. Their wannly lawn and trees.year old daughter Daisy approves of their new house. "It's  His fivenice	giggles shyly, though she is not too shy to point out the here," she absence of storesChad wholike "Bloomydales."	than  Daisy  is  a little  more self-Too often his response has been misread by those conscious, even serious.aware of the film's ending.It is important to realize, however, that at thissense what  the  future  holds.  He  is merely point in time Chad has nofor a boy his age who has just been uprootedfrom his home in the city and deposited in a vastly different environment.As he tells his father, what he misses most is the sound of traffic. Itseems the noise made by trucks and taxi cabs created for him a kind of evening lullaby. Now he finds it difficult to fall asleep in the quiet."What about the sound of crickets?" Navidson asks. Chad shakes his head.at all." "It's not the same. I dunno. Sometimes it's just silent ... No sound"Does that scare you?" Chad nods. "Why?" askshis father. "It's like something's waiting." "What?"Chad shrugs. "I dunno Daddy. I just like the sound of traffic."1312In his article "Years of Those" in The New Republic, v. 213, November 20, 1995, p. 33-39, Helmut Kereincrazch puts Navidson's age at forty-eight.131be question of lengthy narrative descriptions in what is purportedly a criticalexegesis is addressed in Chapter 5; footnote 67. - Ed.Of course, Navidson's pastoral take on his family's move hardly reflects the far more complicated and significant impetus behind his project-namely his foundering relationship with longtime companion Karen Green. While both have been perfectly content not to marry, Navidson's constant assignments abroad  have led  to  increased  alienation and untold personal difficulties. After nearly eleven years of constant departures and brief returns, Karen has made it clear  that  Navidson  must either give up his professional habits or lose his family. IBtimately unable to make this choice, he compromises by  turning  reconciliation  into  a  subject for documentation.None of this, however, is immediately apparent. In fact it requiressome willful amnesia of the more compelling sequences ahead, if we are to detect the subtle valences operating between Will and Karen; or  as  Donna York phrased it, "the way they talk to each other,  the  way  they  look  after each other, and of course the way they don't." 14Navidson, we learn, began his  project  by  mounting  a number  of  Hi 8s around the house and equipping them with motion detectors  to  turn  them on and off whenever someone enters or leaves the room. With the  exception of the three bathrooms, there are cameras in every corner of the house. Navidson also keeps on hand two 16mm Arriflexes and his usual battery of 35mm cameras.Nevertheless, as  everyone  knows,  Navidson's  project  is  pretty crude. Nothing, for instance, like the constant eye  of  CCTV  systems routinely installed in local banks  or  the  lavish equipment and  multiple camera operators required on MTV's Real World. The whole effort would seem very borne movie-ish at  best  were  it  not  for the  fact  that  Navidson  is an exceptionally gifted photographer who understands how one sixtieth of a second can yield an image  worth  more  than  twenty-four  hours  of continuous footage. He is not interested in showing all the coverage or attempting to capture some kind of catholic or otherwise  mythical  view. Instead he hunts for moments, pearls of the particular, an unexpected phone call, a burst of laughter, or some snippet of conversation which might elicit from us an emotional spark and perhaps even a bit of human understanding.More often than not, the near wordless fragments Navidson selectsreveal what explication could only approximate. Two such instances seem especially sublime, and because they are so short  and  easy  to  miss,  it  is worth reiterating their content here.In the first one, we see Navidson climbing to  the  top  of  the  stairs with a cra te full of Karen's things. Their  bedroom  is  still  cluttered  with lamps in bubble wrap and  assorted  unpacked  suitcases  and  garbage  bags full of clothes. Nothing hangs on the  walls.  Their  bed  is  not  made. Navidson finds some room on top of a bureau to set down his load.  He  is about to leave when some invisible impulse stops him. He takes Karen's jewelry box out of the crate, lifts the hand-carved horn lid, and removes  the inner tray. Unfortunately, whatever he sees inside is invisible to the camera.When Karen walks in carrying a basket stuffed with bedsheets andpillow cases, Navidson has already turned his attention to an old  hairbrush lying next to some perfume bottles."What are you doing?" she immediately asks.14Donna York's "In Twain" in Redbook, v. 186, January 1996, p. 50.10 "This is nice," he says, removing a big clump  of her  blonde  hair from the tines and tossing it into the wastebasket."Give me that," Karen demands. "Just you watch, one day I'll  go bald, then won't you be sorry you threw that away.""No," Navidson replies with a grin.It is unnecessary to dwell here on the multiple  ways  in  which  these few seconds demonstrate how much Navidson values Karen, 15 except to highlight how despite his sarcasm and apparent disregard for her things the scene itself represents the exact opposite. Using image and exquisitely controlled edits, Navidson has in effect preserved her hair, called into question his own behavior and perhaps in some ways contradicted his own closing remark, which as Samuel T. Glade has pointed  out  could  refer  to either "watch,"  "bald,"  or "sorry" or  all  three.16  Even  better,  Navidson has permitted the action and subtlety of the composition to represent the profound sentiments at work without the molestations of some ill-conceived voice-over or manipulative soundtrack.In keeping with this approach, the second moment also does without explanations or disingenuous musical  cues.  Navidson  simply  concentrates on Karen Green. Once a model with the Ford Agency in New Yolk. she has since put behind her the life of Milan fashion shoots and  Venetian  Masques in order to raise her two children. Considering how beautiful she appears  on the dreadful Hi 8 tapes, it is hardly surprising editors frequently relied on slides of her pouty lips, high cheek bones, and hazel eyes to sell their magazines.Early on, Navidson gave Karen a Hi 8 which  he  asked  her  to  treat like a journal. Her video entries-which Navidson promised to  view  only after the film was shot and then only if  she  agreed-reveal  a  thirty-seven year old woman who worries about leaving the  city,  growing  old,  keeping trim, and staying happy. Nevertheless, despite their purely confessional content, it is not a journal entry  but  rather  an  unguarded  moment  captured on one of the house Hi 8s that demonstrates Karen's almost bewildering dependence on Navidson.Karen sits with Chad and Daisy in the  living  room.  The  children  are in the midst of a candle-making project which involves several empty egg cartons, a dozen long lengths of wick, a bucket of plaster of Paris  and  a jar full of crystal wax. Using a pair of red  handled  scissors,  Daisy  cuts  the wicks down to three inch pieces  and  then  presses  them  down  into  an  egg cup which Chad in turn fills  with  a layer of plaster  followed  by  a layer  of the tiny wax beads. The result is some kind of candle with plenty  of goop  to go around, most of it ending up on the children's hands. Karen  helps  brush the hair out of her daughter's eyes lest she try to do it herself and end up smearing plaster all over her face. And yet even though Karen  keeps  Chad from overfilling the molds or Daisy from hurting herself with the scissors,15Se "The Heart's Device" by Frances Leiderstahl in Science, v.  265  August  5,   1994,  p.  741;  Joel Watkin's "Jewelry Box, Perfume, and Hair" in Mademoiselle, v. IOI  May, 1995, p. 178-181;  as  well  as Hardy Taintic's more ironic piece "Adult Letters and Family Jewels" The American Scholar, v. 65 spring 1996, p. 219-241.16Samuel T. Glade's "Omens & Signs" in Notes From Tomorrow ed. Lisbeth Bailey (Delaware: TaemaEssay Publications, 1996).11 she still cannot resist looking out the window every couple of minutes. The sound of a passing truck causes her to glance away. Even if  there  is  no sound, the weight of a hundred seconds always turns her head.Though clearly a matter of opinion, Karen's gaze seems just as lostas it is "surfeit with love and longing."17 The reasons are in part  answered when at last Navidson's car pulls  into  the  driveway.  Karen  hardly  attempts to contain her relief. She instantly leaps up from the mini candle factory and dashes from  the  room. Seconds  later-no  doubt  thinking  better  of herself- she returns."Daisy, hold off using the scissors until I get back." "Mommy!" Daisy shrills."You heard what I said. Chad keep an eye on your sister." "Mommy!" Daisy squealing even louder."Daisy, mommy also wants you to look after your brother."This seems to appease the little girl, and she actually settles down, smugly eyeing Chad even as she continues to snip wicks.Strangely enough, by the time Karen reaches Navidson in the  foyer, she has quite effectively masked all her eagerness  to  see  him.  Her indifference is highly  instructive.  In  that  peculiar  contradiction  that  serves as connective tissue in so many relationships, it is possible  to  see  that  she loves Navidson almost as much as she has no room for him."Hey, the water heater's on the fritz," she manages to say."When did that happen?" She accepts his brief kiss. "I guess last night."1817Max C. Garten's "100 Looks" in Vogue, v. 185, October 1995, p. 248.11213 14 15 What both these moments reveal is how much Will and Karen need each other and yet how difficult  they  find  handling  and  communicating those feelings.Unfortunately,  critics  have  been  less  than  sympathetic.  Following the release of The Navidson Record, neither  Karen  nor  Navidson's reputation escaped unscathed. Karen, in particular, was decimated by a vituperative stream of accusations from the tabloids, reputable reviewers, and even an estranged sister. Leslie Buckman blows high the  roof  beams when she calls "Karen Green a cold bitch, plain and simple. A high-fashion model, not much smarter than  a  radiator,  who  grew  up  thinking  life revolved around club owners, cocaine and credit card limits. Watching her burble on about her weight, her children, or how much she needs Navidson made me want to retch. How can she say she loves a  man  when  she's incapable of anything even remotely resembling commitment? Did I say she was a cold bitch? She's also a slut." 19Buckman is not alone in her opinion. Dale Corrdigan has alsopointed out that Karen was anything but a lovely housewife: "Karen hardly gave up the promiscuous behavior that marked her 20s.  She  only  became more discreet. "20 In retrospect, the rabid speculation over Karen's infidelities seems driven by a principally sexist culture, especially since so little  attention  was paid to Navidson's role in their relationship. As David Liddel once19"Li e Lexicon and Feminine Wiles" by Leslie Buckman published in All In The Name Of Feminism: ACollection Of Essays ed. Nadine Muestopher (Cambridge, Massachusetts: Shtron Press, 1995), p. 344. 20oaJe Corrdigan, "Blurbs," Glamour, v. 94, April 1996, p. 256.16exclaimed: "If he has horns, who's to say he doesn't have hooves?"2 1 Fortunately unlike the biased treatment offered by the media, Navidson does not hesitate to constantly include in his film evidence of his own failings. In fact as of late, many have called into question the accuracy of this self- portrait, observing that Navidson may have gone too far out of his way to cast himself in a less than favorable light.22Not only does Navidson reveal through Karen, Chad, and Daisy how he spent the last decade perfecting a career in distance, where taking off on a moment's notice to shoot Alaskan fishing boats was something his family had to just accept, even if that three day trip slowly evolved into weeks and even months, he also, by way of the film, admits to carrying around his own alienating and intensely private obsessions.As it turns out though, the first hint concerning these dark broodings does not come from him but from Karen. Navidson's early Hi 8 journal entries are so easy and mild they rarely, if ever, allude to deeper troubles.Only Karen, staring straight into that little lens, brings up the problem."He mentioned Delial again," she says in an extremely clipped tone. "I've warned him if he's not going to tell me who she is he better damn not bring her up. Part of this move south was supposed to be about putting the past and all that behind us. He's been pretty good but I guess he can't control his dreams. Last night, I wasn't sleeping very well. I was cold. It's the middle of May but I felt like I was lying in a freezer. I got up to get a blanket and when I came back he was talking in his sleep: 'Delial.' Just like that. Out of the blue. And I'm certain because he said her name twice. Almost shouted it."As it turns out, Karen was not the only one who was kept in the dark about Delial. Even friends and fellow photojournalists who had heard Navidson use the name before never received any sort of explanation. No one had any idea who she was or why it was she haunted his thoughts andconversation like some albatross.23That said, while the first sequence certainly hints at a number of underlying tensions in the Navidson/Green family, all brought into relief by this chapter, it is crucial not to lose sight of the prevailing sense of bliss still evoked in those opening minutes. After a couple of nights, Chad no longer has trouble sleeping. After a couple of days, Daisy's nipped finger heals. The heater is easily repaired. Even both parents enjoy a private moment where their hands can playfully unlock and interlock, Will finally putting his arm around Karen as she, letting out a heart-stirring sigh, rests her head on his shoulder.In fact it is rare to behold such radiant optimism in anything these days, let alone in films, each frame so replete with promise and hope. Navidson clearly cherishes these bucolic, near idyllic impressions of a new world. Of course, nostalgia's role in shaping the final cut must not be forgotten, especially since within a year these pieces were all Navidson had21"A Horny Duo" by David Liddel, Utne Reader, July/August 1993, p. 78.22Ascencion Gerson's "The Vanity of Self-Loathing" in Collected Essays on Self-Portraiture ed. Haldor Nervene (Honolulu: University of Hawaii Press, 1995), p. 58.23Since the revelation, there has been a proliferation  of material on the subject. Chapter XIX dealsexclusively with the subject. See also Chris Ho's "What's in a name?" Afterimage, v. 31, December, 1993; Dennis Stake's Delia/ (Ind.ianapolis: Bedeutungswandel Press, 1995); Jennifer Caps' Delia/, Beatrice, and Dulcinea (Englewood Cliffs, NJ.: Thurnos Inc., 1996);  Lester Brernan's "Tis but  a Name"  in  Ebony,  no. 6, May 1994, p. 76; and Tab Fulrest's Ancient Devotions (Berkeley: University of California Press, 1995).17 left-Karen and the children a mere blur racing down the staircase, the pointillism of their pets' paw prints caught on the dew covered lawn, or the house itself, an indefinite shimmer, sitting quietly  on  the  corner of Succoth and Ash Tree Lane, bathed in afternoon light.18 IIIIt is no accident that the photographer becomes a photographer any more than the lion tamer becomes a lion tamer.- Dorothea Langei1t{"·',t$   '\	•1    •:i,;t      •p  at  i'"',,;t	:ifb l :Q,t,-.,Y• z•;m•' ,vK-  •ii 7,  t•	,1• -tr,     •tt'r11N	,,,. ,i - Exodus 3. 1124Why Navidson? Why not someone else?When the great Florentine howls, "Ma io perche venirvi? o chi 'l concede?! Io non Enea, io non Paulo sono, Homer's rival calls him a2419 coward and orders him to get moving because  the  powers  above  have  taken a personal interest in his salvation.For hell's cartographer, the answer is mildly satisfying. For Navid- son, however, there is no answer at all During "Exploration  #4"  he  even asks aloud, "How the fuck did I end up here?" The house responds with resounding silence. No divine attention. Not even an amaurotic guide.Some  have  suggested  that  the  horrors  Navidson  encountered  in thathouse   were  merely   manifestations  of  his   own   troubled   psyche.aDr. ThenVan   Pollit  in  his  book  The  Incident    claims  the   entire house  is	physicalincarnation of Navidson's psychological pain: "I often wonder how things might have turned out if Will Navidson had,  how  shall  we  say,  done  a little bit of house cleaning. "26While Pollit is not alone in asserting that  Navidson's psychology profoundly influenced  the  nature  of those  rooms  and  hallways,  few  believe it conjured up  that  place. The  reason  is  simple:  Navidson  was not  the  first  to live in the house and encounter its  peril.  As  the  Navidsons'  real  estate agent Alicia Rosenbaum eventually revealed, the  house  on  Ash  Tree  Lane has had more than a few occupants, approximately .37 owners  every  year, most of whom were traumatized in some way. Considering the  house was supposedly built back in I720, quite a few people have slept and suffered within those walls. If the house were indee  d the product of psychological agonies, it would have to be the collective product of every inhabitant's agonies.It is no great coincidence then that eventually someone with a camera and a zest for the dangerous would show up at this Mead Hall and confront26Regrettably, Pollit's proclivity to  pun and write  jokes  frequently  detracts  from  his  otherwise  lucid analysis. The Incident (Chicago: Adlai Publishing, 1995), p.  108, is a remarkable example of brilliant scholarship and exemplary synthesis of research and thought. There are also some pretty good illustrations. Unfortunately almost everything he concludes is wrong.21 the terror at the door. Fortunately for audiences everywhere, that someone possessed extraordinary visual talents.Navidson's troubles may not have created the house but they did ultimately shape the way he faced it.Navidson's childhood was fairly bleak. His father was a St. Louis salesman who worked for a string  of  large  electronics  corporations, shuttling his family around the mid-west every two  or  three  years.  He  was also an alcoholic and prone  toward  violent  outbursts  or  disappearing  for long periods of time.21Navidson's mother was no better. She soon left them all to pursue a career as an actress and ended up living with a string of not so productive producers. Purportedly in her own words,   all  she  ever  wanted  to  do  was "bring down the house." Navidson's father died of congestive heart failure but his mother just vanished. She was last seen in  a  Los  Angeles  bar smoking cigarettes and talking about moonlight and why you could find so much of it in Hollywood. Neither Will nor his twin brother Tom ever heardfrom her again. 28Because the enormous narcissism of their parents deprived Will and Tom of suitable role models, both brothers learned to identify with absence. Consequently, even if something beneficial fortuitously entered their lives they immediately treated it as temporary.  By the  time  they  were   teenagers they were already accustomed to a  discontinuous  lifestyle  marked  by constant threats of abandonment and the lack of any emotional stability. Unfortunately, "accustomed to" here is really synonymous with "damaged by. "29Perhaps one reason Navidson became so enamored with photogra- phy was the way it gave permanence to moments that were often so fleeting.27Michelle Nadine Goetz recalls how on one occasion Navidson's father climbed onto the  hood of the family's recently purchased car, used a thermos to crack up the  windshield, then  marched  back  into  the kitchen, picked up a pan full of sizzling pork chops and threw it against the wall. (See the Goetz interview published in The Denver Post, May 14, 1986, B-4). Terry Borowska, who used to babysit both brothers, remembers how every so often Navidson's father would vanish, sometimes for up to five weeks at a time, without telling his family where he was going or  when he might return. Inevitably when he did come back-typically after midnight, or early in the morning, sitting in his  truck,  waiting  for them to  wake  up  since he had either left his key or  lost it-there would be  a few days of  warmth  and   reconciliation. Eventually though, Tony Navidson would return to his own moods and  his  own  needs,  forcing  Will  and Tom to realize they were better off just trying to keep clear of their father.   (See  Borowska's  interview ublished in The St. Louis Post-Dispatch, September 27, 1992, D-3, column one.)A selection of personal interviews with Adam Zobol, Anthony Freed and Anastasia Cullman. September8-11, 1994.29Rita Mistopolis M.D., in her book Black Heart, Blue Heart (Provo, Utah: Brigham Young UniversityPress, 1984), p. 245, describes the seriousness of emotional deprivation:It is not difficult to understand how children who have suffered from malnutrition or starvation need food and plenty of care if their bodies  are to recover so they can go on to  lead normal lives. If, however, the star- vation is severe enough, the damage will be  permanent  and  they  will suffer physical impairments for the rest of their lives.  Likewise,  chil- dren who are deprived of emotional nurturing require care and  love if their sense of security and self-confidence is to be restored. However, if love is minimal and abuse high, the damage will be permanent and the children will suffer emotional impai.rments for the rest of their lives.Nevertheless, not even ten thousand photographs can secure a world, and so while Navidson may have worked harder, taken greater risks and become increasingly more successful, he was ultimately misled in feeling that his labor could make up for the love he was deprived of as a child and the ultimate sense of security such love bestows.For this reason, we should again revisit Navidson on his porch, hisgaze fixed, his delicate fingers wrapped around a glass of lemonade. "I just thought it would be nice to see how people move into a place and start to inhabit it," he calmly announces. "Settle in, maybe put down roots, interact, hopefully understand each other a little better. Personally, I just want to create a cozy little outpost for me and my family." A pretty innocuous and laconic rumination and yet it contains one particularly nettlesome word.By definition "outpost" means a base, military or other, which while safe inside functions principally to provide protection from hostile forces found on the outside. This has always seemed a bizarre word to choose to describe a small house in the Virginia countryside,30 but it does shed some light on why Navidson undertook this project in the first place. More than just snapping a few pictures and recording daily events with a few Hi 8s, Navidson wanted to use images to create an outpost set against the transience of the world. No wonder he found it so impossible to give up his professional occupation. In his mind abandoning photography meant submitting to loss.Therefore to revisit our first two questions: Why Navidson?Considering the practically preadamite history of the house, it was inevitable someone like Navidson would eventually enter those rooms.Why not someone else?Considering his own history, talent and emotional background, only Navidson could have gone as deep as he did and still have successfully brought that vision back.3130Keillor Ross in his article "Legal Zoning" for Atlantic  Monthly,  v.  278,  September  1996,  p.  43,  does not wish to discount the possibility of irony: "After all Navidson  has  just  moved  from  the  extremely populated confines of New York City and is now only poking fun at  the  relative wilderness of this  suburb." Ross makes a good point, except for  the  fact  that  Navidson  is  a  man  who  understands  the meaning of outpost and his tone seems too straight forward to imply any kind of jest.31Zampano. This chapter first appeared as "The Matter Of Why" in LA Weekly, May 19, 1994.23Faith, sir, as to that matter, I don't believe one halfof it myself.- Diedrich KnjckerbockerIn early June of 1990, the Navidsons flew to Seattle for a wedding. When they returned, something in the house had changed. Though they had only been away for four days, the change was enormous. It was not, however, obvious-like for instance a fire, a robbery, or an act of vandalism. Quite the contrary, the horror was atypical. No one could deny there had been an intrusion, but it was so odd no one knew how to respond. On video, we see Navidson acting almost amused while Karen simply draws both hands to her face as if she were about to pray. Their children, Chad and Daisy, just run through it, playing, giggling, completely oblivious to the deeper implications.What took place amounts to a strange spatial violation whlch hasalready been described in a number of ways-namely surprising, unsettling, disturbing but most of all uncanny. In German the word for 'uncanny' is 'unheimlich' which Heidegger in his book Sein und Zeit thought worthy of some consideration:DajJ die Angst als Grundbefindlichkeit in sol- cher Weise erschlie.fJt, dafiir ist weider die alltiigliche Daseinsauslegung und Rede der unvoreingenommenste Beleg.  Befindlichkeit, so    wurde   fruher   gesagt,    macht offenbar»wie einem ist«. In der Angst is einem »un- heimlich«. Darin kommt zuniichst die eigentumliche Unbestimmtheit dessen, wobei sich das Dasein in der Angst befindet, zum Ausdruck: das Nichts und Nirgends. Un- heimlichkeit meint aber dabei zugleich das Nichtzuhause-sein. Bei der ersten phiinome- nalen Anzeige der Grundverfassung des Daseins und der Kliirung des existenzialen Sinnes von In-Sein im Unterschied von der kategorialen Bedeutung der »Jnwendigkeit« wurde  das  In-Sein  bestimmt als  Wohnen bei... , Vertrautsein mit ... Dieser Charakter des ln-Seins wurde dann konkreter sichtbar gemach durch die alltagliche  0/fentlichkeit des  das  die   beruhigte Selbstsicherheit,das selbstverstiindliche »Zuhause-sein<< in die durchschnittliche  Alltiiglichkeit   des  Daseins24bringt. Die Angst dagegen holt das Dasein aus  seinem   verjallenden  Aufgehen   in der» Welt«  zuruck. Die alltdgliche Vertrautheitbricht in sich Zusammen. Das Dasein ist ver- einzelt, das jedoch als ln-der-Welt-sein. Das In-Sein kommt in den existenzialen »Modus« des Un-zuhause. Nichts anderes meint die Rede von der »Unheimlichkeit.«32Sein und Zeit Nevertheless regardless of how extensive his analysis is here, Heidegger still fails to point out that unheimlich when used as an adverb means "dreadfully," "awfully," "heaps of," and "an awfu l lot of." Largeness has always been a condition of the weird and unsafe; it is overwhelming, too much or too big. Thus that which is uncanny or unheimlich is neither homey nor protective, nor comforting nor familiar. It is alien, exposed, and unsettling, or in other words, the perfect description of the house on Ash Tree Lane.In their absence, the Navidsons' home had become something else, and while not exactly sinister or even threatening, the change still destroyed any sense of security or well-being.Upstairs, in the master bedroom, we discover along with Will and Karen a plain, white door with a glass knob. It does not, however, open into the children's room but into a space resembling a walk-in closet. However unlike other closets in the house, this one lacks outlets, sockets, switches, shelves, a rod on which to hang things, or even some decorative molding. Instead, the walls are perfectly smooth and almost  pure black- 'almost' because there is a slightly grey quality to the surface. The space cannot be more than five feet wide and at most four feet long. On the opposite end, a second door, identical to the first one opens up into the children's bedroom.Navidson immediately asks whether or not they overlooked theroom. This seems ridiculous at first until one considers how the impact of such an implausible piece of reality could force anyone to question their own perceptions. Karen, however, manages to dig up some photos which clearly show a bedroom wall without a door.The next question is whether or not someone could have broken in and in four days constructed the peculiar addition. Improbable, to say theleast.Their final thought is that someone came in and uncovered it. Just installed two doors. But why? And for that matter, to quote Rilke, Wer?34Navidson does check the lli 8s but discovers that the motion sensors were never triggered. Only their exit and re-entrance exists on tape. Virtually a week seamlessly elided, showing us the family as they depart from a house without that strange interior space present only to return a fraction of a second later to find it already in place, almost as if it had been there all along.Since the discovery occurred in the evening, the Navidsons' inquiry must wait until morning. And so while Chad and Daisy sleep, we watch Karen and Will suffer through a restless night. Hillary, their one year old Siberian husky, and Mallory, their tabby cat, lie on either side of the 24" Sony television unperturbed by the new closet or the flicker from the tube or the drone from the speakers-Letterman, new revelations regarding the Iran-Contra affair, reruns, the traffic of information assuring everyone that the rest of the world is still out there, continuing on as usual, even if two new doors now stand open, providing a view across a new space of darkness, from parent's room to children's room, where a tiny nightlight of the Star Ship Enterprise burns like some North Star.It is a beautiful shot. In fact, the composition and elegant balance of colours, not to mention the lush contrast of lights and darks, are so exquisite they temporarily distract us from any questions concerning the house or events unfolding there. It seems a perfect example of Navidson's unparalleled talent and illustrates why few, if any, could have accomplished what he did, especially toward the end.The following day both Karen and Will pursue the most rational course: they acquire the architectural blueprints from their local real estate office. As might have been expected, these blueprints are not actual building plans but were drawn up in 1981 when former owners sought permission from the town's zoning board to construct an ell. The ell, however, was ultimately never built as the owners soon sold the property, claiming they needed something "a little smaller." Though the designs, as they appear on screen, do not show a room or closet, they do confirm the existence of a strange crawl space, roughly four feet wide, running between both bedrooms.35Alicia Rosenbaum, the real estate agent responsible for selling the Navidsons the house, gives the camera a bewildered shrug when Karen asks if she has any idea who could be responsible for "this outrage." Unable to say anything useful, Mrs. Rosenbaum finally asks if they want to call the police, which amusingly enough they do.That afternoon, two officers arrive, examine the closet and try to hide the fact that this has to be the weirdest call they have ever made. As Sheriff Axnard says, "We'll file a report but other than that, well I don't know what more we can do. Better I guess t'have been a victim of a crazy carpenter than some robber" which even strikes Karen and Navidson as a little funny.With all obvious options exhausted, Navidson returns to the build- ing plans. At first this seems pretty innocent until he gets out a measuri ng tape. Idly at first, he starts comparing the dimensions indicated in the plans with those he personally takes. Very soon he realizes not everything adds up. Something, in fact, is very wrong. Navidson repeatedly tacks back and forth from his 25' Stanley Power Lock to the cold blue pages spread out on his bed, until he finally mutters aloud: "This better be a case gf bad math."An incongruous cut presents us with the title card: l/4Outside the house, Navidson climbs up a ladder to the second story. Not an easy ascent he casually confesses to us, explaining how a troublesome skin condition he has had since childhood has recently begun to flare up around his toes. Wincing slightly at what we can assume is at least moderate pain, he reaches the top rung where using a 100' Empire35In Appendix II-A, Mr. Truant provides a sketch of this floor plan on the back of an envelope. - Ed.fiberglass tape with a hand crank, he proceeds to measure the distance from the far end of the master bedroom to the far end of the children's bedroom. The total comes to 32' 9 3/4" which the house plans corroborate-plus or minus an inch. The puzzling part comes when Navidson measures the internal space. He carefully notes the length of the new area, the length of both bedrooms and then factors in the width of all the walls. The result is anything but comforting. In fact it is impossible.32' 10" exactly.The width of the house inside would appear to exceed the width of the house as measured from the outside by 1/4".Certain that he has miscalculated, Navidson drills through the outer walls to measure their width precisely. Finally, with Karen's help, he fastens the end of some fishing line to the edge of the outer wall, runs it through the drilled hole, stretches it across the master bedroom, the new space, the children's bedroom and then runs it through a hole drilled through the opposite wall. He double checks his work, makes sure the line is straight, level and taut and then marks it. The measurement is still the same.32' 10" exactly.Using the same line, Navidson goes outside, stretches the fishing line from one side of the house to the other only to find it is a quarter of an inch too long.Exactly.The impossible is one thing when considered as a purely intellectual conceit. After all, it is not so large a problem when one can puzzle over an Escher print and then close the book. It is quite another thing when one faces a physical reality the mind and body cannot accept.Karen refuses the knowledge. A reluctant Eve who prefers tanger- ines to apples." I don't care," she tells Navidson. "Stop drilling holes in my walls." Undeterred, Navidson continues his quest, even though repeated attempts at measuring the house continue to reveal the quarter-inch anomaly. Karen gets quieter and quieter, Navidson's mood darkens, and responding like finely tuned weathervanes the children react to the change in parental weather by hiding in other parts of the house. Frustration edges into Navidson's voice. No matter how hard he tries-and Navidson tries six consecutive times in six consecutive segments-he cannot slaughter that tiny sliver of space. Another night passes and that quarter of an inch still survives.Where narratives in film and fiction often rely on virtually immediate reactions, reality is far more insistent and infinitely (literally) more patient. Just as insidious poisons in the water table can take years before their effects are felt, the consequences of the impossible are likewise not so instantly apparent.Morning means orange juice, The New York Times, NPR, a squabble over the children's right to eat sugared cereal. The dishwasher moans, the toaster pops. We watch Karen scan the classifieds as Navidson toys with his coffee. He adds sugar, milk, stirs it all up, stirs it again, and then as an afterthought adds more sugar, a little more milk. The liquid rises to the rim and then by a fraction exceeds even this limit Only it does not spill. It holds-a bulge of coffee arcing tragically over china, preserved by the physics of surface tension, rhyme to some unspeakable magic, though as everyone knows, coffee miracles never last long. The morning wake-up call wobbles, splits, and then abruptly slips over the edge, now a Nile of30 Tom.him z"Usually when you want a level you ask a neighbor or go to the hardware store. Count on Will Navidson to call  Lowell,  Massachusetts. Where is he?"As it turns out Navidson has gone to the hardware store to pick up  a few items.In the film, Tom and Navidson's  first encounter  has  almost nothing to do with each other. Instead  of  addressing  any  interpersonal  issues,  we  find them both huddled over a Cowley level mirror transit, alternately taking turns peering across the house, the line of sight floating a few feet above the floor, occasionally interrupted when Hillary or Mallory in some keystone chase race around the children's beds.  Tom  believes  they  will  account  for the quarter inch discrepancy with a perfectly level measurement.Later on, out in the backyard, Tom lights up a joint of marijuana.The drug clearly bothers Navidson but he says nothing. Tom knows  his brother disapproves but refuses to alter his behavior. Based on their body language and the way both of them avoid looking  directly  at  each  other,  not to speak of the space between their words, the last eight years continues to haunt them."Hey, at least I'm an acquaintance of Bill's now" Tom finally says, exhaling a thin stream of smoke. "Not a drop of booze in over two years."At first glance, it seems hard  to  believe  these  two  men  are  even related let alone brothers. Tom is content if there  happens  to  be  a game  on and a soft place from which to watch it. Navidson works out every  day,  devours volumes of esoteric criticism, and constantly attaches the  world around him to one thing: photography. Tom  gets  by, Navidson succeeds. Tom just wants to be,  Navidson  must  become.  And  yet  despite  such obvious differences, anyone who looks past Tom's wide grin  and considers his eyes will find surprisingly  deep  pools  of  sorrow.  Which  is  how  we know they are brothers, because like Tom, Navidson's eyes share the same water.Either way the moment and opportunity for some kind of fraternal healing disappears when Tom makes an important discovery: Navidson was wrong. The interior of the house exceeds the exterior not  by  1/4"  but  by 5/16".No matter how many legal pads, napkins, or newspaper marginsthey fill with notes or equations, they cannot account for that fraction. One incontrovertible fact stands in  their way:  the  exterior  measurement  must equal the internal measurement. Physics depends on a universe infinitely centred on an equal sign. As science writer and sometime theologian David Conte wrote: "God for all intents and purposes is an equal sign, and  at  least  up until now, something humanity has always been able to believe  in  is  that  the universe adds up."3On this point, both brothers agree. The problem must lie with their measuring   techniques   or   with   some   unseen   mitigating    factor:    air tempe  rature,  mis-calibrated instruments,  warped  floors, something, anything. But after a day and a half passes without a  solution,  they  both decide to look for help. Tom calls Lowell and postpones his construction obligations. Navidson calls an old friend who teaches engineering at UVA.37Look at David Conte's "All Thing Being Equal"  in  Maclean's,  v.  107,  n.  14,  1994,  p.   102.  Also  see Martin Gardner's "The Vanishing Area Paradox" which appeared in his "Mathematical Games" column in Scientific America, May 1961.32 Early the following morning, both brothers head off for Charlottes-ville.Navidson is not the only one who knows people in the vicinity. Karen's friend Audrie McCullogh drives down from Washington, D.C. to catch up and help construct some bookshelves. Thus as WiJI and Tom set out to find an answer, two old friends put an enigma on hold, stir up some vodka tonics, and enjoy the rhythm of working with brackets and pine.Edith Skourja has written an impressive forty page essay entitled Riddles Without on this one episode. While most of it focuses on what Skourja refers to as "the political posture" of both women-Karen as ex- model; Audrie as travel agent-one particular passage yields an elegant perspective into the whys and ways people confront unanswered questions:Riddles: they either delight or torment. Their de- light Lies in solutions. Answers provide bright moments of comprehension perfectly suited for chil- dren who still inhabit a world where solutions are readily available. Implicit in the riddle's form is a promise that the rest of the world resolves just as easily. And so riddles comfort the child's mind which spins wildly before the onslaught of so much information and so many subsequent questions.The adult world, however, produces riddles of adifferent variety. They do not have answers and are often called enigmas or paradoxes. Still the old hint of the riddle's form corrupts these questions by re- echoing the most fundamental lesson: there must be an answer. From there comes torment.It is not uncharacteristic to encounter adults who detest riddles. A variety of reasons may lie behind their reaction but a significant one is the rejection of the adolescent belief in answers. These adults are often the same ones who say "grow up" and "face the facts." They are offended by the incongruities of yesterday's riddles with answers when compared to today's riddles without.It is beneficial to consider the origins of" riddle." The Old English rtedelse means "opinion, conjure" which is related to the Old English rceaon "to inter- pret'' in turn belonging to the same etymological history of "read." "Riddling" is an offshoot of "reading" calling to mind the participatory nature of that act-to interpret-which is all the adult world has left when faced with the unsolvable."To read" actually comes from the Latin reri "to calculate, to think" which is not only the progenitor of "read" but of "reason" as well, both of which hail from the Greek arariskein "to fit." Aside from givin g us "reason," arariskein also gives us an unlikely sibling, Latin arma meaning "weapons." It seems that "to fit" the world or to make sense of it requires either reason or arms. Charmingly enough KarenGreen and Audrie McCullogh "fit it" with a book- shelf.As we all know, both reason and weapons will eventually be  resorted  to.  At least  though  for now- before the explorations, before the blood- shed- a drill, a hammer, and a Phillips screwdriver suffice.Karen refers to her books as her "newly found day to day comfort." By assembling a stronghold for them, she provides a pleasant balance between the known and the unknown. Here stands one  warm, solid, and colorful wall of volume after volume of history, poetry, photo albums, and pulp. And though irony eventually subsumes this moment, for now at least it remains uncommented upon and thus wholly innocent. Karen simply removes a photo album, as anyone might do, and causes all the books to fall like dominos along the length of the shelf. However in- stead of tumbling to the floor, they are soundly stopped, eliciting a smile from both women and this profound remark by Karen: "No better book ends than two walls."Lessons from a library. 38Skourja's analysis, especially concerning the inherent innocence of Karen's project, sheds some light on the value of patience.Walter Joseph Adeltine argues that Skourja forms a dishonest partnership with the shelf building segment: "Riddle me this- Riddle me that-Is all elegant crap. This is not a confrontation with the unknown but a flat-out case of denial."39 What Adeltine himself denies is the need to face some problems with patience, to wait instead of bumble, or as Tolstoy wrote: "Dans le doute, mon cher ... abstiens-toi."40Gibbons when working on The Decline and Fall of the  Roman Empire would go on long  walks  before  sitting  down  to  write.  Walking  was a time to organize his thoughts, focus and relax. Karen's shelf building serves the same purpose as  Gibbon's  retreats  outside.  Maturity,  one discovers, has everything to do with the acceptance of "not knowing." Of course not knowing hardly prevents the approaching chaos.Tum vero omne mihi visum considere in ignis Ilium: Delenda est Carthago.4•38Edith Skourja's ''Riddles Without" in Riddles Within, ed. Amon Whitten (Chicago:  Sphinx  Press,  1994), p. 17-57.9walter Joseph Adeltine "Crap," New Perspectives Quarterly, v. 11, winter 1994, p. 30.40something   like  "When    in  doubt,   friend,  do  nothing."		war and Peace by Leo  Tolstoy,  1982,   Penguin  Classics  in New  York,  p.	885.41Know what,  Latin's  way   out  of my  league.	I can find people who speak Spanish,  French,  Hebrew,  Italian  and  even  German  but  the  Roman  tongue's not exactly thriving in the streets of LA.A  girl  named  Amber  Rightacre  suggested  it  might  have  something  to do with the destruction of Carthage.42 She's the  one  who  translated  and sourced the previous Tolstoy phrase. I've actually never read War andbut she had, and get this, she read it to Zampano.34 35 36 Karen's project is one  mechanism  against the uncanny or that which is "un-home-like." She remains watchful and willing to let the bizarre dimensions of her house gestate  within  her. She challenges its irregularity by introducing normalcy: her friend's presence, bookshelves, peaceful conversation. In this respect, Karen acts as the quintessential gatherer.  She keeps close to the homestead and while she may not forage for berries and mushrooms she does accumulate tiny bits of sense.Navidson and Tom,  on  the  other  hand,  are  classic  hunters.  They select weapons (tools; reason) and they track their prey (a solution). Billy Reston is the one they hope will help them achieve their goal. He  is  a gruff man, frequently caustic and more like  a  drill  sergeant  than  a  tenured professor. He is also a paraplegic who has spent almost half his life in an aluminum wheelchair.  Navidson  was  barely twenty-seven  when  he   first met Reston. Actually it was a  photograph  that brought them together. Navidson had been on assignment in India, taking pictures of trains, rail workers, engineers, whatever  caught  his  attention.  The  piece  was  supposed to capture the clamor of industry outside of Hyderabad. What ended  up plastered on the pages of more than a few newspapers, however, was a photograph of a black American engineer desperately trying to out run a falling high voltage wire. The cable  had  been  cut  when  an  inexperienced crane operator had swung wide  of  a  freight  car  and  accidental.Iy  collided with an electrical pole. The wood had instantly splintered, tearing in half one of the power cables which descended toward the helpless Billy Reston, spitting sparks, and lashing the air like Nag or Nagaina.4342In an effort to keep the translations as literal as possible. both Latin phrases read asfollows: "Then in fact all of Troy seemed to me to sink into flames" (Aeneid II. 624) and "Carthage must be destroyed." - Ed.That very photograph hangs on Reston's office wall. It captures the mixture of fear and disbelief on Reston's face as he suddenly finds himself running for his life. One moment he  was casually scanning the yard, thinking about lunch, and in the next he was about to die.  His  stride  is stretched, back toes trying to push him out of the way, hands reaching for something, anything, to pull him out of the way. But he is too late. That serpentine shape surrounds him, moving much too fast for  any  last  ditch effort at escape. As Fred de Stabe  nrath remarked  in  April  1954,  "Les  jeux sont Jait. Nous sommes Jucked."44 Tom takes a hard look at this remarkable 11 X  14  black  and  white print. "That was the last time I had legs,"  Reston tells  him.  "Right  before that ugly snake bit 'em off. I used to hate the picture and then I  sort  of became grateful for it. Now when anyone walks into my  office  they  don't have to think about asking me how I ended up in this here  chariot.  They  can see for themselves. Thank you Navy. You bastard. Rikki-Tikki-Tavi with a Nikon."Eventually the chat subsides and the three  men  get  down  to  busi- ness. Reston's response is simple, rational, and exactly what both  brothers came to hear: "There's no question the problem's with your equipment. I'd have to check out Tom's stuff myself but  I'm  willing to  bet  university money there's something a little outta whack  with  it.  I've got  a few  things you can borrow: a Stanley Beacon level and a  laser  distance  meter."  He  grins at Navidson. ''The meter's even a Leica. That should put this  ghost  in the grave fast. But if it doesn't, I'll come out and measure your place myself and I' 11charge you for my time too."Both Will and Tom chuckle, perhaps feeling a little foolish. Reston shakes his head."If you ask me Navy, you've got a little too much  time  on  your hands. You'd probably be better off if you just took your family for a nice long drive."On their way back, Navidson points the Hi 8 toward the darkening horizon.For a while neither brother says a word.Will breaks the silence first: "Funny  how  all  it took  was  a fraction of an inch to get us in a car together.""Pretty strange.""Thanks for coming Tom.""Like there was really a chance I'd say no." A pause. Again Navidson speaks up."I almost wonder if I got tangled up in  all  this  measuring  stuff just so I'd have some pretext to call you."4 4Despite his best efforts, Tom cannot  hold  back  a laugh:  "You  know I hate to tell you this but there are simpler reasons you could  of  come  up with.""You're telling me," Navidson says, shaking his head.Rain starts splashing down on the windshield and lightning cracks across the sky. Another pause follows."Did you hear the one about the guyThis time, Tom breaks the silence: on the tightrope?"Navidson grins: "I'm glad to see some things never change.""Hey this one's true. There was this twenty-five year old guy walking a tightrope across a deep river gorge while  half  way  around  the world another twenty-five year old guy was getting a  blow  job  from a seventy year old woman, but  get  this,  at the  exact  same  moment  both  men were thinking the exact same thought. You know what it was?""No clue."Tom gives his brother a wink. "Don't look down."And thus as one storm  begins  to  ravage  the  Virginias,  another  one just as easily dissipates and vanishes in a flood of bad jokes and old stories.When confronting the spatial disparity  in  the  house, Karen  set  her mind on familiar things while Navidson went in search of a solution. The children, however, just accepted it. They  raced  through  the  closet.  They played in it. They inhabited it. They denied the  paradox  by  swallowing  it  whole. Paradox, after all, is two irreconcilable truths.  But  children  do  not know the laws of the world well enough yet to fear the ramifications of the irreconcilable. There are certainly no primal associations  with  spatial anomalies.Similar to the ingenuous opening sequence of The Navidson Re- cord, seeing these two giddy children romp around is an equally unsettling experience, perhaps because their state of nai'vete is so appealing to us, even seductive, offering such a simple resolution to  an  enigma.  Unfortunately, denial also means ignoring the possibility of peril.That possibility,  however,  seems  at  least  momentarily  irrelevant when we cut to Will  and  Tom  hauling  Billy  Reston's  equipment  upstairs, the authority of their tools quickly subduing any sense of threat.Just watching the two brothers use the Stanley Beacon  level  to establish the distance they  will  need  to  measure  communicates  comfort. When they then tum their attention to the Leica  meter  it  is  nearly  impossible not to at last expect some kind of resolution to  this  confounding  problem.  In fact Tom's crossed fingers as the Class 2 laser finally fires a tiny red  dot across the width of the house manages to succinctly represent our own sympathies.As the results are  not  immediate,  we  wait  along  with  the  whole family as the internal computer calibrates the dimension. Navidson captures these seconds in 16mm. His Arriflex, already pre-focused and left running, spools in 24 frames per second as Daisy and Chad sit on their beds in the background, Hillary and Mallory linger in the foreground near Tom,  while Karen and Audrie stand off to the right near the newly created bookshelves.Suddenly Navidson lets out a hoot. It appears the discrepancy hasfinally been eliminated.Tom peers over his shoulder, "Good-bye Mr. Fraction.""One more time" Navidson says. "One more time. Just to makesure."39 Oddly enough, a slight draft keeps easing one of  the  closet  doors shut. It has an eerie effect because each time the door closes we lose sight  of the children."Hey would you mind propping that open with something?' Navid- son asks his brother.Tom turns to Karen's shelves and reaches for the largest  volume  he can find. A novel. Just as with Karen, its  removal  causes  an immediate domino effect Only this time, as the books topple into  each  other,  the  last  few do not stop at the  wall  as  they  had  previously  done  but  fall  instead  to the floor, revealing at least a foot between the  end  of  the  shelf  and  the plaster.Tom thinks nothing of it."Sorry," he mumbles and leans over to pick up the scattered books. Which is exactly when Karen screams.40 VRaju welcomed the intrusion-something to relieve the loneliness ofthe place.- R. K. NarayanIt is impossible to appreciate the importance of space in The Navid- son Record without first talcing into account the significance of echoes. However, before even beginning a cursory examination of their literal and thematic presence in the film, echoes reverberating within the word itself need to be distinguished.Generally speaking, echo has two coextensive histories: the mytho- logical one and the scientific one.46 Each provides a slightly different perspective on the inherent meaning of recurrence, especially when that repetition is imperfect.To illustrate the multiple resonances found in an echo, the Greeks conjured up the story of a beautiful mountain nymph. Her name was Echo and she made the mistake of helping Zeus succeed in one of his sexual conquests. Hera found out and punished Echo, making it impossible for her to say anything except the last words spoken to her. Soon after, Echo fell in love with Narcissus whose obsession with himself caused her to pine away until only her voice remained. Another lesser known version of this myth has Pan falling in love with Echo. Echo, however, rejects his amorous offers and Pan, being the god of civility and restraint, tears her to pisces, burying all of her except her voice. Adonta ta mele.@ In both cases, unfulfilled love results in the total negation of Echo's body and the near negation of her voice.But Echo is an insurgent. Despite the divine constraints imposedupon her, she still manages to subvert the gods' ruling. After all, her repetitions are far from digital, much closer to analog. Echo colours the words with faint traces of sorrow (The Narcissus myth) or accusation (The Pan myth) never present in the original. As Ovid recognized in his Metamorphoses:46David Eric Katz argues for a third: the epistemological one. Of course, the implication that the current categories of myth and science ignore the reverberation of knowledge itself is not true. Katz's treatment of repetition, however, is still highly rewarding. His list of examples in Table iii are particularly impressive. See The Third Beside You: An Analysis of the Epistemological Echo by David Eric Katz (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1982).@Adonta ta ... = "Her still singing limbs."48Ivan Largo  Stilets,  Grmee.k  Mythology  Again  (Boston:   Biloquist  Press,  1995),  p.  343-497;  as  well  as41 Spreta latet  silvis  pudibundaque  frondibus ora protegit et solis ex illo vivit in antris; sed tamen haeret amor crescitque dolore repulsae; extenuant vigiles corpus miserabile curae ad- ducitque cutem macies et in  aera  sucus corporis omnis abit; vox tantum atque ossa supersunt: vox manet, ossa ferunt lapidis traxisse figuram. lnde latet silvis nulloque in monte  videtur, omnibus  auditur:  sonus  est, qui vivit in illa.f!To repeat: her voice has life.  It  possesses  a  quality  not  present in the original, revealing how a nymph can return a different and more meaningful story, in spite of telling the same story.492Eloquently translated by Horace Gregory as: "So she was turned away/ To hide her face, her lips, her guilt among the trees,/ Even their leaves, to haunt caves of the forest,/ To feed her love on  melancholy sorrow/ Which, sleepless, turned her body to a shade,/ First pale and  wrinkled, then a sheet of air,/ Then bones, which some say turned to thin-worn  rocks; I And  last her voice remained.  Vanished  in  forest,/ Far from her usual walks on hills and valleys,/ She's heard by all who call; her voice has life." The Metamorphoses by Ovid. (New York: A Mentor Book, 1958), p. 97.49Literary marvel Miguel de Cervantes set down this compelling passage in his Don Quixote (Part One,Chapter Nine) :... la verdad, cuya rnadre es  la  historia,  emula  del  tiempo,  dep6sito  de las acciones, testigo de lo pasado, ejemplo y aviso de lo presente, advertencia de lo por venir. 5IMuch later,  a yet untried  disciple of arms  had  the  rare  pleasure of meeting the  extraordinary  Pierre  Menard  in a Paris cafe following the second world war. Reportedly Menard expounded on his distinct distaste for Madelines but never mentioned the passage (and echo of Don Quixote) he had  penned  before  the  war  which had subsequently earned him a fair amount of literary fame:... la verdad, cuya  madre  es  la  historia,  emula del  tiempo,  dep6sito de las acciones, testigo de lo pasado, ejemplo y aviso de lo presente, advertencia de lo por venir.This exquisite variation on the  passage by  the  "ingenious layman" is  far too  dense to unpack  here.  Suffice  it to say Menard's nuances are so fine they are nearly undetectable, though talk with the Framer and you will immediately see how haunted they are by sorrow, accusation, and sarcasm.5042 In his own befuddled way, John Hollander has given the world a beautiful and strange reflection on love and longing. To read his marvelous dialogue on echo52 is to  find  its  author  standing  perfectly  still  in the  middle of the sidewalk, eyes wild with a cascade of internal  reckonings,  lips  acting out some unintelligible  discourse,  inaudible  to  the  numerous  students who race by him,  noting  his  mad  appearance  and  quite  rightly  offering  him  a wide berth as they escape into someone else's class.53Hollander begins with a virtual catalogue of literal echoes. For example, the Latin "decem iam annos aetatem trivi in Cicerone" echoed by the Greek "one !"d' Or "Musarum studia" (Latin)  described  by  the  echo as "dia'' (Greek). Or Narcissus' rejection "Emoriar, quam sit tibi copia& 51Which Anthony Bonner translates  as  M  • • •	truth, whose mother is history, who is therival of time, depository of deeds, witness of  the  past.  example  and  lesson  to  the present, and warning to the future." - Ed.32see John Hollander's The Figure of Echo (Berkeley: University of California Press, 1981).53Kelly Chamotto makes mention of Hollander in her essay "Mid-Sentence, Mid-Stream" in Glorious Garrulous Graphomania ed. T. NJoseph Truslow (Iowa City: University of Iowa Press, 1989), p. 345.d' "I've spent ten years on Cicero" "Ass!" "The Muses' studies" "divine ones."43 nostri" to which Echo responds  "sit  tibi  copia  nostri."(i On page 4, he even provides a woodcut from Athanasius Kircher's Neue Hall -und Thonkunst (Nordlingen,  1684)  illustrating  an  artificial  echo  machine designed to exchange" clamore" for four echoes:" amore," "more," "ore," and finally" re." 4 Nor does Hollander stop there. His slim volume abounds with examples of textual transfiguration, though in an effort to keep from repeating the entire book,  let  this  heart-wrenching  interchange  serve  as  a final example:Chi darafine al gran dolore? L'ore. 0 0  While The Figure of Echo takes special  delight  in  clever  word games, Hollander knows better  than  to  limit  his  examination  there.  Echo may live in  metaphors,  puns  and  the  suffix-solis  ex  illo  vivit   in antrisrL- but her range extends far beyond those literal walls.  For  instance, the rabbinical bat kol means "daughter of a  voice"  which  in  modem Hebrew serves as a rough equivalent for the word "echo." Milton knew it: "God so commanded, and left that Command/  Sole  Daughter  of  his voice."55 So did Wordsworth: "stem Daughter of the Voice of God." Quoting from Henry Reynold's Mythomystes (1632), Hollander evidences religious appropriation of the ancient myth (page 16):This Winde is (as the before-mentioned Iamblicus, by consent of his other fellow- Cabalists sayes) the  Symbole  of  the  Breath of God; and Ecco, the reflection of this divine breath, or spirit upon us; or (as  they  interpret it) the daughter of the divine voice; which through the beatifying splendor it shedds and diffuses through  the  Soule,  is  justly  worthy to be reverenced and adored by us. This Ecco descending upon a Narcissus,  or  such  a Soule as (impurely and vitiously affected) slights, and stops  his  eares  to  the  Divine voice, or shutts his harte from divine Inspirations, through his being enamour' d of not himselfe, but his owne shadow meerely. . . he becomes thence . . . an earthy, weake, worthlesse thing, and fit sacrifize for only etemall oblivion ... Thus Echo suddenly assumes the role of  god's  messenger,  a  female Mercury or perhaps even Prometheus, decked in talaria, with lamp in hand, descending on fortunate humanity.(!Narcissus: "May I die before I give you power over me." Echo: "I give you power over me." 4"0 outcry" returns as "love," "delays," "hours" and "king."0 0 "Who will put an end to this great sadness?" "The hours passing"n"Literature's rocky caves"5454"From that time on she lived in lonely caves." - Ed.55John Milton's Paradise Lost, IX, 653-54.44 In 1989, however, the noted southern theologian Hanson Edwin Rose dramatically revised this reading. In a series of lectures delivered at Chapel Hill, Rose referred to "God's Grand Utterance" as "The Biggest Bang Of Them All." After discussing in depth the difference between the Hebrew davhar and the Greek logos, Rose took a careful accounting of St. John, chapter I, Verse 1-"In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God." It was a virtuoso perfonnance but one that surely would have been relegated to those dusty shelves already burdened with a thousand years of seminary discourse had he not summed up his ruminations with this incendiary and still infamous conclusion: "Look to the sky, look to yourself and remember: we are only god's echoes and god is Narcissus."56Rose's pronouncement recalls another equally important meditation:Why did god create a dual universe?So he might say,"Be not like me. I am alone." And it might be heard.5There is not time or room to adequately address the complexity inherent in this passage, aside from noting how the voice is returned-or figuratively echoed- not with an actual word but with the mere understanding that it was received, listened to, or as the text explicitly states "heard." What the passage occludes, no doubt on purpose, is how such an understanding might be attained.Interestingly enough, for all its marvelous observation, The Figure of Echo contains a startling error, one which performs a poetic modulation on a voice sounded over a century ago. While discussing Wordsworth's poem "The Power of Sound" Hollander quotes on page 19 the following few lines:Ye Voices, and ye ShadowsAnd Images of voice-to hound and hornFrom rocky steep and rock-bestudded meadows Flung back, and in the sky's blue care reborn -[Italics added for emphasis]Perhaps it is simply a typographical error committed by the publisher. Or perhaps the publisher was dutifully transcribing an error committed by Hollander himself, not just a scholar but a poet as well, who in that tiny slip where an "r" replaced a "v" and an "s" miraculously vanished reveals his own relation to the meaning of echo. A meaning Wordsworth did not share. Consider the original text:Creationist Myths 58-fhough we were ultimately unsuccessful, all efforts were made to determine whowrote the above verse. We apologize for this inconsistency. Anyone who can provide legitimate proof of authorship will be credited in future editions. - Ed.45Ye Voices, and ye ShadowsAnd Images of voice-to hound and hornFrom rocky steep and rock-bestudded  meadows Flung back, and, in the sky's blue caves reborn _ 59[Italics added for emphasis]While Wordsworth's poetics retain the literal properties and stay within the canonical jurisdiction of Echo, Hollander's find something else, not exactly 'religious'-that would be hyperbole-but 'compassionate',  which  as  an echo of humanity suggests the profoundest return of all.Aside from recurrence, revision,  and  commensurate  symbolic reference, echoes also reveal emptiness. Since objects always muffle or impede acoustic reflection, only empty places can create echoes of lasting clarity.Ironically, hollowness only increases the eerie quality of otherness inherent in any echo. Delay and fragmented repetition  create  a  sense  of another inhabiting a necessarily deserted place. Stran  ge  then  how  something so uncanny and outside of the self, even  ghostly  as  some  have  suggested, can at the  same  time also contain  a resilient  comfort:  the  assurance  that  even if it is imaginary and at best the  product  of a  wall,  there  is  still  something else out there, something to stake out in the face of nothingness.Hollander is wrong when he writes on page 55:The apparent echoing of  solitary  words  .  .  . [reminds] us ... that acoustical echoing in  empty places can be a very common auditory emblem, redolent of gothic novels as  it  may  be,  of  isolation and often of unwilling solitude. This  is  no  doubt  a case of natural echoes conforming to echo's mythographic  mocking,  rather  than   affirming,   role. In an  empty  hall  that should be comfortably inhabited, echoes  of  our  voices  and motions mock our very presence in the hollow space.It is not by accident that choirs  singing  Psalms  are  most  always  recorded with ample reverb. Divinity seems  defined  by  echo. Whether the Vienna Boys Choir or monks chanting away on some  chart  climbing  CD,  the hallowed always seems to abide  in the province of the hollow. The reason for this is not too complex. An  echo, while implying  an  enormity  of  a  space, at the same time also defines it, Limits it, and even temporarily inhabits it.When a pebble falls down a well, it is gratifying to hear the eventual plunk.  If,  however,  the  pebble  only  slips  into  darkness  and  vanishes without a sound, the effect is disquieting. In the case of a verbal echo, the59wiUiam Wordswonh, The Poems Of William Wordsworth, ed. Nowell Charles Smith, M.A. vol. I. (London: Methuen and Co., 1908),  p. 395. Also of some interest is Alice May Williams letter to the observers at Mount Wilson (CAT. #0005) in which  she  writes:  "I  beleive  that  sky  opens  &  closes  on cenain periods, When you see all that cloud covering the sky right  up,  &  over.  Those  clouds are  called. Blinds, shutters, & verandahs. Somtimes that sky opens underneath." See No One May Ever Have The Same Knowledge Again: Letters to Mount Wilson Observatory 1915-1935, edited and transcribed by Sarah Simons (West Covina, California: Society For the Diffusion of Useful Information Press, 1993), p. 11.spoken word acts as the pebble and the subsequent repetition serves as "the plunk." In this way, speaking can result in a form of"seeing."For all its merits, Hollander's book only devotes five pages  to  the actual physics of sound. While this is not the place to dwell on  the  beautiful and complex properties of reflection, in order to even dimly comprehend the shape of the Navidson house it is still critical to recognize how the laws of physics in tandem with echo's mythic inheritance serve to enhance echo's interpretive strength.The descriptive ability of the audible is easily designated with the following formula:0 Sound + Time = Acoustic LightAs most people know who are versed in this century's technological effects, exact distances can be determined by timing the duration of a sound's round trip between the deflecting object and its point  of  origin.  This  principle serves as the basis for aU the radar, sonar and ultrasonics used every  day around the world by air traffic controllers, fishermen, and obstetricians. By using sound or electromagnetic waves, visible blips may be produced on a screen, indicating either a 747, a school of salmon, or the  barely  pumping heart of a fetus.Of course echolocation has never belonged exclusively to  technol- ogy. Microchiroptera (bats), Cetacean (porpoises and toothed whales), Delphinis delphis (dolphins) as weIJ as certain mammals (flying foxes) and birds (oilbirds) aU use sound to create extremely accurate acoustic images. However, unlike their human counterparts, neither bats nor dolphins  require an intermediary screen to interpret the echoes. They simply  "see"  the  shape of sound.Bats, for example, create frequency modulated [FM] images by producing constant-frequency signals (0.5 to 100+  ms]  and FM  signals  (0.5 to IO ms] in their larynx. The respondent echoes  are  then  translated  into nerve discharges in the auditory cortex, enabling the bat not  only  to determine an insect's velocity and direction  (through  synaptic  interpretation of Doppler shifts) but pinpoint its location to within a fraction of a millimeter.60As Michael J. Buckingham noted in the mid-80s, imaging per-formed by the human eye is neither active  nor  passive.  The  eye  does  not need to produce a signal to see  nor does  an  object  have  to  produce a signal in order to be seen. An object  merely  needs  to  be  illuminated.  Based  on  these observations, the already mentioned fonnula reflects a more accurate understanding of vision with the following refinement:0 Sound + Time = Acoustic Touch As Gloucester munnured, "I see it feelingly."6 1Unfortunately, humans lack the sophisticated neural  hardware  pres- ent in bats and whales. The blind must rely  on  the  feeble  light of fingertips and the painful shape of a cracked shin. Echolocation comes  down  to  the crude assessment of simple sound modulations, whether in the dull reply of60See D.R. Griffin, Listening in the Dark ( 1986). 61King Lear, IV, vi, 147.47 a tapping cane or the low, eerie flutter in one simple word-perhaps your word-flung down empty hallways long past rnidnight.62The study of architectural acoustics focuses on the rich interplay between sound and interior design. Consider, for example, how an enclosed space will naturally increase sound pressure and raise the frequency. Even though they are usually difficult to calculate, resonance frequencies, also known as eigenfrequencies or natural frequencies, can be easily determined for a perfectly rectangular room with hard smooth walls. The following formula describes the resonance frequencies [f] in a roomwith a length of L, width of W, and height of H, where the velocity of sound equals c: f = c12 [ (n/L)2 + (ffi/W)2 + (P/tt)2] 1/2 Hz Notice that if L, W, and H all equal 0 0 , f will equal 0.Along with  resonance  frequencies,  the  study of sound also takes into account wave acoustics,  ray  acoustics,  diffusion,  and  steady-state pressure level, as well as  sound  absorption  and  transmission  through  walls. A carefu l examination of the dynamics involved in sound absorption reveals how incident sound waves are converted to energy. (In the case of porous material, the subsurface lattice  of  interstices translates sound  waves  into heat.) Nevertheless, above and beyond the details of frequency shifts and volume fluctuations-the physics of 'otherness' -what matters most is a sound's delay.63Point of  fact,  the  human  ear  cannot  distinguish  one  sound  wave from the same sound wave if  it  returns  in less than 50  milliseconds. Therefore for anyone to hear a reverberation requires a certain amount of space. At 68 degrees Fahrenheit sound travels at approximately 1,130ft per second. A reflective surface must stand at least 56 112ft away in order for a person to detect the doubling of her voice.64In other words, to hear an echo, regardless  of whether  eyes  are  open or closed, is to have already "seen" a sizable space.Myth makes Echo the subject of longing and desire. Physics makes Echo the subject of distance and design. Where emotion and reason are concerned both claims are accurate.And where there is no Echo there is no description of space or love. There is only silence.6563Further attention should probably be given to sabins and Transmission Loss as described byTL= 10 Jog 1/ 'r dB, where 'r= a tran smissioncoefficient and a high TL indicates a high sound insulation. Unfortunately, one could write several lengthy books on sound alone in The Navidson Record. Oddly enough, with the sole exception of Kellog Pequity's article  on acoustic impedance in Navidson's  house (Science, April 1995, p. 43), nothing else has  been rendered on this particularly  resonant  topic. On the subject of acoustic coefficience, however, see Ned Noi's "Echo's Verse" in Science News, v. 143, February 6, 1993, p. 85.64Parallel surfaces wiJJ create a flutter echo,  though  frequently  a splay  of as  little  as  I6mm (5/8  inch) can the multiple repetitions.50 51 52