 grandeur. Elle traduit une function overture. Seul un esprit logique peut objecter quelled sort abuse bien a fanner quad outrigs.  Dans le regne des values, la cleffenne plus quelled oeuvre. La poignee ouvre plus qu'elle ne fenne.213See also Anne Balifs article in  which  she  quotes  Dr.  F.  Minkowska's  comments  on  De  Van  Gogh  et Seurat aux dessins d'enfants, illustrated catalogue of an exhibition held at the Musee Pedagogique (Paris) 1949.213"1 recall that Fran oise Mlnkowska organized an unusually moving exhibition of drawings by Polish and Jewish children who had suffered the cruelties of the German occupation during the last war. One child, who had been hidden in a closet every  time there was an alert, continued to draw narrow, cold, closed houses long after  those  evil times were over. These are what  Mme.  Minkowska  calls  'motionless'  houses,  houses that have become motionless In their rigidity. ' This rigidity and motionlessness are present in the smoke as well as in the window curtains.  The  surrounding  trees  are quite straight and give the impression of standing guard over the house.á ... "Often a simple detail  suffices  for  Mme.  Minkowska,  a  distinguished  psychologist, to recognize the way the house functions. In one house, drawn by an eight-year-old chi l d, she  notes  that  there  Is  'a  knob  on  the  door;   people  go  in  the  house,  they  live there.' It is not merely a constructed house, it Is also a house that is 'lived-in.' Quite obviously the door-knob has a functional significance. This is the kinesthetic sign, so frequently forgotten in the drawings of 'tense' children."Naturally too, the door-knob could hardly be drawn in scale with the house, its function taki  ng  precedence  over  any  question  of size.  For  it expresses  the  function of opening, and only a logical mind could object that it  is  used  to  close  as well  as  to open the door. In the domain of values,  on  the  other  hand,  a  key  closes  more  often than it opens, whereas the door-knob  opens more  often  than  it  closes." As translated by Maria Jolas in Gaston Bachelard's The Poetics of Space (Boston, Massachusetts: Beacon Press. 1994), p. 72-73. - Ed.189 As Navidson pulls away to re-examine the obstacle, he hears a whimper coming from the other side. Talcing two steps back, he throws his shoulder into the door. It bends but does not give way. He tries again and again, each hit straining the bolt and hinges, until the fourth hit, at last, tears the hinges free, pops whatever bolt held it in place, and sends the door cracking to the floor.190  Reston keeps the chair mounted Arriflex trained on Navidson and while the focus is slightly soft, as the door breaks loose, the frame gracefully accepts Jed's ashen features as he faces what he has come to believe is his final moment.191 This whole sequence amounts to a pretty ratty collection of cuts alternating between Jed's Hi 8 and an equally poor view from the 16mm camera and Navidson and Reston's Hi 8s. Nevertheless what matters most here is adequately captured: the alchemy of social contact as Jed's rasp of terror almost instantly transforms itself into laughter and sobs of relief. In a scattering of seconds, a thirty-three year old man from Vineland, New Jersey, who loves to drink Seattle coffee and listen to Lyle Lovett with his fiancee, learns his sentence has been remitted.He will live.192 As diligent as any close analysis  of the  Zapruder  film,  similar  frame by frame examination carried  out  countless  times  by too many critics to name here2 14 reveals how a fraction of a second later one bullet pierced his upper lip, blasted through  the  maxillary  bone,  dislodging  even  fragmenting the central teeth, (Reel l0; Frame 192) and then in  the  following  frame (Reel 10; Frame 193) obliterated the back side of his head, chunks of occipital lobe and parietal bone spewn out in an instantly senseless pattern uselessly preserved  in  celluloid  light  (Reel   10;  Frames  194,   195,  196,  197,  198, 199,200,  201,  202,  203,  204,  &  205).  Ample  information   perhaps   to  track thetrajectories of individual  skull  bits  and  blood droplets, determine destinations, even origins, but not nearly enough information to actually ever reassemble the shatter. Here then-214Though still see Danton Blake's Violent Verses: Cinema's Treatment of Death (Indianapolis: Hackett, 1996).193 the after194 math195 of	meaning.196 A life197 time198 finished	between199 the  space of200 two	frames.201 The	dark	line	where	the202 eye	persists	in	seeing203 something	that	was	never	there204 To2 15 begin with205 Ken Bums has used this particular moment to  illustrate why The Davidson Record is so beyond Hollywood: "Not only  is  it  gritty and dirty and raw, but look how  the  zoom  claws  after  the  fleeting  fact. Watch how the frame does not, cannot anticipate  the  action.  Jed's  in the lower left hand comer of the frame! Nothing's  predetermined  or  foreseen. It's all painfully present which is why it's so painfully reaI."2 16206 Jed crumples, his moment of joy stolen by a pinkie worth of lead, leaving him dead on the floor, a black pool of blood spilling out of him.207 In the next shots-mostly from the Hi 8s-we watch Davidson dragging Wax and Jed out of harm's way while trying at the same time to get Tom on the radio.Reston returns fire with an HK .45.208 "Since when did you bring a gun?" Davidson asks, crouching near the door."Are you kidding me? This place is scary."209 Another shot explodes in the tiny room.210 Reston wheels back to the edge of the doorway and squeezes off three more rounds. This time there is no return fire. He reloads. A few more seconds pass.211 "I can't see a fucking thing," Reston whispers.Which is true: neither one of their flashlights can effectively penetrate that far into the black.Davidson grabs his backpack and pulls out his Nikon and the Metz strobe with its parabolic mirror.212 Thanks to this powerful flash, the Hi 8 can now capture a shadow in the distance. The stills, however, are even more clear, revealing that the shadow is really the blur of a man,213 standing dead centre214 with a rifle in hishand.215 Then just as the strobe captures him lifting the weapon, presumably now aiming at the blinding flash, we hear a series of sharp cracks. Neither Davidson nor Reston have any idea where these sounds are coming from, though gratefully the stills reveal what is happening:all  those doors216 behind217 the man218 are slamming shut,219 one220 after221 another222 after223 another, 224  which still does not prevent the figure from firing. "Awwwwwwwwwww shit!" Reston shouts. But Davidson keeps his Nikon steady and focused, the motor chewing up a whole roll of film as the flash angrily slashes out at the pre- 225  vailing darkness, ultimately capturing 226  this dark form 227  vanishing 228  behind a closing 229  door, 230  even though a hole the size of a fist punches through the muntin, 231  the round powerful enough to propel the bullet into the second door, 232  though than a enough 233 not to do more panel, powerful splinter  before this damage aJong with even the sound from the blast 234  disappears behind 	the 	roar 235 of more 	slamming 	doors,  the last one finally 236 hammering shut, leaving  the room 237  	saturated 	m 238 silence.  Navidson sprints down the corridor to the first door but can find no way to lock it. "He's alive" Reston whispers. "Navy, come here. Jed's breathing." The camera captures Navidson's P.0.V. as he returns to the dying young man. "It doesn't matter Rest. He's still dead." 239  Whereupon Navidson's eye quickly pans from the thoughtless splatter of grey matter and blood to more pressing things, the groan of the living calling him away from the sigh of the dead. 240  Despite his shoulder wound and loss of blood, Wax is still very much alive. As we can see, a fever-probably due to the onset of an infection-has marooned him in a delirium and although his rescuers are now at hand his eyes remain fixed on a horizon that is both empty and meaningless. Navidson's shot of Jed, though brief, is not nearly as short as this shot of Wax. 241  In the next segment, taken at least fifteen minutes later at a new location, we see Davidson elevating Wax's legs, cleaning the wound, and gently feeding him half a tablet of a painkiller, probably meperidine.U? 217i.e. Demerol. 242  Reston, meanwhile, finishes converting their two-man tent into a makeshift stretcher. Having already arranged the tent poles in a way that will provide the most support, he now uses some pack straps to create two handles which will enable Davidson to carry the rear end more easily. 243  "What about Jed?" Reston asks, as he begins securing the front end of the stretcher to the back of his wheelchair. "We'll leave his pack and mine behind." "Some habits die hard, huh?" "Or they don't die," replies Navidson.2I8A bit of dialogue which of course only makes sense when Navidson's history is taken into account.U? 2I9see page 332-333. 244  A little later, Davidson gets Tom on the radio and tells him to meet them at the bottom of the stairs. 245  XI 	La poete au cachot, debraille, mafadif, 	. Roulant un manuscrit sous son pied convulsij, Mesure d'un regard que la terreur enflamme l 'escalier de vertige oa s 'abtme son time. - Charles Baudelaire+? While Karen stayed home and Will Davidson headed for the front line, Tom spent two nights in no man's land. He even brought his bag and papers, though in the long run the effects of the weed would not exactly comfort him. More than likely when Tom first stepped foot in that place, every instinct in his body screamed at him to immediately get out, race back to the living room, daylight, the happy medi3!1 of his life. Unfortunately it was not an impulse he could obey as he was needed near the Spiral Staircase in order to maintain radio contact. By his own admission, Tom is nothing like his brother. He has neither the fierce ambition nor the compulsion for risk taking. If both brothers paid the same price for their parents' narcissism, Will relied on aggression to anchor the world while Tom passively accepted whatever the world would give or take away. Consequently Tom won no awards, achieved no fame, held no job for more than a year or two, remained in no relationship for longer than a few months, could not settle down in a city for longer than a few years, and ultimately had no place or direction to call his own. He drifted bending to daily pressu~es, never protesting when he was deprived of what he should have rightfully claimed as his own. And in this sad trip downstream, Tom dulled the pain with alcohol and a few joints a day- what he called his "friendly haze." Ironically though, Tom is better liked than Will. Physically as well as emotionally, Tom has far fewer edges than his famous brother. He is soft, easy-going and exudes _a kind of peacefulness typiÂcally reserved for Buddhist monks. 	á 	221 220something about the terror of the staircase. 221"The poet sick and with his chest half bare/ Tramples a manuscript in his dark stall,/ Gazi~g with terror at the yawning stair/ Down which his spirit finally must fall." As translated by Roy Campbell. - Ed. 246  Anne Kligman's essay on Tom is nearly poetic in its brevity. In only one and a half pages, she condenses fifty-three interviews with Tom's friends, alJ of whom speak warmly and genÂerously of a man they admittedly did not know all that well but nonetheless valued and in some cases appeared to genuinely love. Will Davidson, on the other hand, is respected by thousands but "has never commanded the kind of gut-level affection felt for his twin brother."222 A great deal of exegesis exists on the unique relationship between these two brothers. Though not the first to make the comparison, Eta Ruccalla's treatment of Will & Tom as contemporary Esau & Jacob has become the academic standard. Ruccalla finds the biblical tale of twins wrestling over birthright and paternal blessing the ideal mirror in which to view Will & Tom, "who like Jacob and Esau sadly come to share the same conclusion- yipÂparedu.223 ''224 222Anne Kligman's "The Short List" in Paris Review, spring, 1995, p. 43-44. 223w[They) shall be separated." - Ed. 224Eta Ruccalla's exemplary Not True, Man: Mi Ara Beni? (Portland: Hineini Press, May 1995), p. 97. It probably should be noted that while Ruccalla equates Jacob with Davidson, "the clean-shaven intellectual aggressively claiming his birthright," and Esau with Tom, "unkempt and slightly lethargic, lumbering through life like some obtuse water buffalo," Nam Eurtton in her piece "All Accurate" in Panegyric, v. 18, July 30, 1994 draws the opposite conclusion: "Isn't Davidson a hunter like Esau, actively shooting with his camera? And doesn't Tom's calm, in fact a Zen-like calm, make him much more similar to Jacob?" Incredible as it may seem, Ruccalla's nine hunÂdred page book is not one page too long. As she says herself, "To adequately analyze the history of Esau and Jacob is to painstakÂingly exfoliate, layer by layer, the most delicate mille-feuille. "225 Of course it is also an act that could in the end deprive the reader of all taste for the subject. Ruccalla accepts this risk, recognizing that an investment in such a complex, and without exception, time consuming 247  array of ideas will in the end yield a taste far superior to anything experienced casually. In the chapter entitled "Ya-yachol, Va-yesht, VaÂyakom, Va-yelech; Va-yivaz" Ruccalla reevaluates the meaning of birthright by treating its significance as nothing more than226 248  rzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz but the Lord Yahweh-that too oft accused literalist - instructs Rebekah in the subtler ways of language by using irony: And the Lord said unto her, Two nations are in thy womb, and two manner of people shall be separated from thy bowels; and the one people shall be stronger than the other people; and the elder shaU serve the younger. And when her days to be delivered were fulÂfilled, behold, there were twins in her womb. (Genesis 25: 23-24) [Chalmer's underline] On one hand Yahweh an-nounces a hierarchy of age and on the other hand claims the children are the same age.221 rzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz Esau comes from the root ash meaning "to hurry" while Ya' akov comes from the root akav which means "to delay" or" b restrain." 22s (i.e. Esau entered the world first; Jacob last.) But Esau is also connected to asah meaning "to cover" while Jacob derives from aqab meaning "heel" (i.e. Esau was covered in hair; Jacob born clutching Esau's heel, restraining him. 229) At least Freed Kashon convincingly objects to RuccaUa's comparison when he points out how reaUy Holloway, not Tom, is the hairy one: "His beard, surly appearance, and even his profession as a bunter make Holloway the perfect Esau. The tension between NavidÂson and Holloway is also more on par with the tension between Jacob and his brother. "230 227Tobias Chalmer's J's Ironic Postures (London University Press, 1954), p. 92. Chalmer, however, fails to take into account Genesis 25:25-26. 228Nonnan J. Cohen's Self, Struggle & Change: Family Conflict Stories in Genesis and Their Healing Insights for Our Lives (Woodstock, Vermont: Jewish Lights Publishing, 1995), p. 98. 229Robert Davidson's Genesis 12-50 (CamÂbridge: Cambridge University Press, 1979), p. 122. 230Freed Kashon's Esau (Birmingham, AlaÂbama: Maavar Yabbok Press, 1996), p. 159. 249  rzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz The degree of Esau and Jacob's struggle is emphaÂsized by the word vaÂyitrozzu which comes from the root rzz meaning " to tear apart, to shatter." The comÂparison falters, however, when one realizes Will and Tom never indulged in such a violent struggle. rzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz During their childhood, Tom and Will were seldom apart. They gave each other supÂport, encouragement, and the strength to persevere in the face of parental indifference.P! Of course their intertwining adolescent years eventually unraveled as they reached adulthood, Will pursuing photography and fame in an attempt to fill the emotional void, Tom drifting into an unremarkable and for the most part internal existence. rzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz Tom, however, never hid behind the adjunct meaning of a career. He never acquired the rhetoric of achievement. In fact his life never moved much beyond the here and now. Nevertheless, in spite of a brutal struggle with alco-holism, Tom did manage to preserve his sense of humor, and in his twelve-step program, inspired many admirers who to this day speak highly of him. Of the hard times that came his way, he experi- 231 Terry Borowska interview. enced the greatest grief during those eight years when he was estranged from his brother or in his words "when the old rug was pulled out from under old Tom." It is hardly a coinci-dence that during this period he succumbed to chemical dependencies, went on un-employment, and prematurely ended a budding relationship with a young schoolteacher. The Navidson Record never explains what came between Tom and Will, though it implies Tom envied Navy's success and was increasingly dissatisfied with his own accomÂplishments. 232 rzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz In his article "Brothers in Arms No More" published in The Village Voice, Carlos Brilliant observes that Tom and Will's estrangement began with the birth of Chad: "While it's complete speculation on my part, I wonder if the large amount of energy required to raise a family pulled Will's attention away from his brother. Suddenly Tom discovered his brother-his only supporter and sympathizer -was devoting more and more time to his son. Tom may have felt abandoned. "233 Annabelle Whitten echoes these sentiments when she points out how Tom occasionally referred to himself as "orphaned at the 232Personal interviews with Damion Searle, Annabelle Whitten and Isaac Hodge. February 5-23, 1995. 233Lost. 250  age of forty. "234 The year Tom (and Will for that matter) turned forty was the year Chad was born. rzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz Ironically enough, Tom's presence in the house on Ash Tree Lane onJy served to help Will and Karen get along. As Whitten states: "Tom's desire to reacquire his lost parental figures transmuted Navidson into father and Karen into mother, thus offering one explanation why Tom frequently sought to reduce tension between both."235 Of course as Nam Eurtton argued, "Why? Because Tom's a nice guy. "236 rzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz Esau's blessing was stolen with a mask. Tom wears no mask, Will wears a camera. But as Nietzsche wrote, "Every profound spirit needs a mask. "237 rzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz And yet, despite the triumph of Jacob's ruse, he should have heeded this admonition: "Cursed be he that maketh the blind to wander out of the way" (Deuteronomy 27:18). And Jacob was indeed cursed, 234Lost. 235Jbid., 112. 236Nam Eurtton's "All Accurate" p. 176. 237Qf some note is the strange typo which appears in the Aaron Stem text: "But the blind Isaac repeated his question, 'Are you really my son Esau?' to which the chosen one replied 'Annie' meaning 'I am."' Aaron Stem's All God's Children: Genesis (New York: Hesed Press, 1964), p. 62. forced to wrestle for the rest of his life with this question of self-worth.P" 	Navidson 	was 	no different. 239 rzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz rzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz "To me, Tom seemed an incredibly peaceful man. Plain, decent but most of all peacefu I. "240 rzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz Here RuccaJJa's analysis unexpectedly rereads the meaning of Esau's lost inheritance, sublimely uncov-ering an unspoken history, veiled in irony and blankness, yet still describÂing how one brother could not have succeeded without the other. Cain may not have been his brother's keeper but Esau certainly was24I rzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz " ... a cunning hunter" "of the field" 238from the Robert Davidson commentary: "Jacob wrestled with an unidentified 'man' who turned out to be God, wrestled and lived to tell the tale. Gathered into the story are so many curious elements that we can only assume that here is a story which has taken many centuries to reach its present form, and which has assimilated material, some of it very primitive, which goes back long before the time of Jacob. It is like an old house which has had additions built on to it, and has been restored and renovated more than once during the passing years." p. 184. l39Lost. 240rbid. 241rbid. 251  "plain man, dwelling in tents. "242 rzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz This then is the meaning of Esau rzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz As Scholem writes: "Frank's ultimate vision of the future was based upon the still unrevealed laws of the Torah of atzilut which he promised his disciples would take effect once they had 'come to Esau,' that is, when the passage through the 'abyss' with its unmitiÂgated destruction and negation was finally accomÂplished. "245 rzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz But as a great Hasidic maxim reminds us: "The Messiah will not come until the tears of Esau have ceased. "246 rzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz and so returns to Tom and Will Navidson, divided by experience, endowed with different talents and disposi- 242See Genesis 27:24243 243wrong. See Genesis 27:29.244 244Mr. Truant also appears to be In error. The correct reference is Genesis 25:27. -Ed. 245Gershom Scholern's The Messianic Idea in Judaism (New York: Schocken Books, 1971), p. 133. In taking the time to consider Frank's work, Scholern does not fail to also point out Frank's questionable character: "Jacob Frank ( 1726-91) will always be remembered as one of the most frightening phenomena in the whole Jewish history: a religious leader who, whether for purely self-interested motives or otherwise, was in all his actions a truly corrupt and degenerate individual." p. 126. 2461.ost. tions, yet still brothers and "naught without the other." As Ruccalla states in her concluding chapter: "While the differences are there, like the serpents of the Caduceus, these two brothers have always been and always will be inextricably intertwined; and just like the Caduceus, their shared hisÂtory creates a meaning and that meaning is health."247 rzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz By the end of the first night, Tom has begun to feel the terrible strain of that place. At one point he even threatens to abandon his post. He does not. His devotion to his brother triumphs over his own fears. Remaining by the radio, "[Tom] gnaws on boredom like a dog gnawing on a bone while aJJ the time eyeing fear like a mongoose. "248 Fortunately for us, some trace of this struggle survives on his Hi 8 where Tom recorded an eclectic, sometimes funny, sometimes bizarre history of thoughts passing away in the atrocity of that darkness. 247Eta Roccella, p. 897. But it also means [Rest missing.] 248Ibid., p. 249. 252  Tom's Story [Transcript] Day 1: 10:38 [Outside Tom's tent; breath frosting in the air] Who am I kidding? A place like this has to be haunted. That's what happened to Holloway and his team-the ghosts got 'me. That's what will happen to Navy and me. The ghosts will get us. Except he's with Reston. He's not alone. I'm alone. That just figures. Ghosts always go first for the one who's alone. In fact, I bet they're here right now. Lurking. Day 1: 12:06 [In order to maintain contact, it was necessary to set up the radio outside of the tent] Radio (N Davidson): Tom, we found another neon marker. Most of its gone. Just a shred. We're laying down line and proceeding. Tom into radio: Okey Navy. See any ghosts? 	Radio (Davidson): 	Nothing. You a little spooked? Tom: Lighting up a fat one. Radio (Davidson): If it gets too much for you, go back. We'll be alright. Tom: Fuck yourself Navy. Radio (Davidson): What? Tom: Doesn't he go around autographing light bulbs? Radio (Davidson): Who? 253  Tom: Watt. Radio (N Davidson): What? Tom: Never mind. Over. Out. Whatever. [ Changing channels J Tom: Karen, this is Tom. Radio (Karen): I would hope so. How's Navy? Tom: He's fine. Found another marker. Radio (Karen): And Billy? Tom: Fine too. Radio (Karen): How are you managing? Tom: Me? I'm cold, I'm scared shitless, and I feel like I'm about to be eaten alive at any moment. Otherwise, I'd say I'm fine. Day 1: 18:46 [Inside tent] Okay, Mr. Monster. I know you're there and you're planning to eat me and there's nothing I can do about that, but I should warn you I've lived for years on fast food, greasy fries, more than a few polyurethane shakes. I smoke a lot of weed too. Got a pair of lungs blacker than road tar. My point being, Mr. Monster, I don't taste so good. Day 1: 18:38 [ Outside tent J This is ridiculous. I don't belong here. No one belongs here. Fuck you Navy for bringing me here. I'm a slob. I like lots of food. These things I consider accomplishments. I am not a hero. I am not an adventurer. I am Tom the slow, Tom the chunky, Tom the stoned, Tom about to be eaten by Mr. Monster. Where are you Mr. Monster, you stinking bastard? Sleeping on the job? 254  Day 1: 21:09 [ Outside tent J I'm sick. I'm freezing to death. I'm going. [He throws up] This is not fun. This isn't fair. [Pause] I think there's a game on tonight. Day 1: 23:41 [ Outside tent] Tom: What kind of voices? Radio (Karen): Daisy doesn't know. Chad said they sounded like a few people, but he couldn't understand what they were saying. Tom: Book me a flight to the Bahamas. Radio (Karen): Are you kidding, book a flight for the whole family. This is absurd. Tom: Where's that bottle of bourbon when you need it? [Pause] Hey, I better sign off. Don't want a bunch of dead batteries on my hands. Radio (Karen): Tell him I love him, Tom. Tom: I already did. Day 2: 00:11 [Outside tent; smoking a joint] I call this "A Little Bedtime Story for Tom." A long time ago, there was this captain and he was out sailing the high seas when one of his crew spotted a pirate ship on the horizon. Right before the battle began, the captain cried out, "Bring me my red shirt!" It was a long fight but in the end the Captain and his crew were victorious. The next day three pirate ships appeared. Once again, the captain cried out, "Bring me my red shirt!" and once again the captain and his men defeated the pirates. That 255  evening everyone was sitting around, resting, and taking care of their wounds, when an ensign asked the captain why he always put on his red shirt before battle. The captain calmly replied, "I wear the red shirt so that if I'm wounded, no one will see the blood. That wey everyone will continue to fight on unafraid." All the men were moved by this great display of courage. Well the next day, ten pirate ships were spotted. The men turned to their captain and waited for him to give his usual command. Calm as ever, the Captain cried out, "Bring me my brown pants." Day 2: 10:87 [Inside tent] Radio (Davidson): Tom? [Static] Tom, you read me? Tom: (Going outside to the radio) What time is it? (Looking at his watch) 11 AM! Jesus, did I sleep well. Radio (Davidson): Still no sign, except for [Static] markers [Static] over. Tom: Say again Navy. You're fading. Day 2: 12:03 [ Outside tent] This punker gets on a bus and takes a seat. His hair's all green, he's got brightly colored tattoos covering his arms and piercings all over his face. Feathers hang from each earlobe. Across the aisle sits an old man who proceeds to stare at him for the next fifteen miles. Eventually the punker gets pretty unnerved and blurts out: "Hey man, didn't you do anything crazy when you were young?" Without missing a beat, the old man replies: 256