"Yeah when I was in the Navy, I got drunk one night in Singapore and had sex with a Bird of Paradise. I was just wondering if you were my son."Day 2: 13:27[ Outside tent]I feel like I'm in a goddamned refrigerator, that's what. So what I want to know is, where's all the goddamn food? God knows I could use a drink.Day 2: 14:11[Inside tent]A monk joins an abbey ready to dedicate his life to copying ancient books by hand.  Mer the  first day though, he reports to the head priest. He's concerned that all the monks  have  been  copying from copies made from still more copies."If someone makes a mistake," he points out. "It would be impossible to detect. Even worse the error would continue to be made."A bit startled, the priest decides that he better check their latest effort against  the original which is kept in a vault beneath the abbey. A place only he has access to.Well two days, then three days pass without the priest resurfacing. Finally the new monk decides to see if the old guy's alright. When he gets down there though, he discovers the priest hunched over both a newly copied book  and the ancient  original text. He is sobbing and by the  look  of things has  been sobbing for a long time."Father?" the monk whispers."Oh Lord Jesus," the priest wails. "The word is 'celebrate."'Day 2:  18:29Day 2:  18:49guy Day 2:  16:01258 infected and the man got sick and eventually, after they cut off his legs, he died.I call that particular story "Love, Death & Nike." A real cheer me up story for Mr. Monster. That's right! All for you. Oh and something else: fuck you Mr. Monster.Day 2: 16:42[Outside tentJThe seven dwarves went to the Vatican and when the Pope answered the door, Dopey stepped forward: "Your Excellency," he said. "I wonder if you could tell me if there are any dwarf nuns in Rome?""No Dopey, there aren't," the Pope replied. Behind Dopey, the six dwarves started to titter. "Well, are there any dwarf nuns in Italy?"Dopey persisted."No, none in Italy," the Pope answered a little more sternly.A few of the dwarves now began to laugh more openly."Well, are there any dwarf nuns in Europe?" This time the Pope was much more firm. "Dopey, there are no dwarf nuns in Europe."By this point, all the dwarves were laughing aloud and rolling around on the ground."Pope," Dopey demanded. "Are there any dwarf nuns in the whole world?""No Dopey," the Pope snapped. "There are no dwarf nuns anywhere in the world."Whereupon the six dwarves started jumping up and down chanting, "Dopey fucked a penguin! Dopey fucked a penguin!"Day 2:  17:18Day 2:  18:28260 [AB the dragon on the tent wall turns toward Tom and opens its mouth, Tom gets ready to turn off the hal  ogen with his foot.]Ah ha, Mr. Monster! Bye-Bye baby! [Click. Black.] 249261 YN	Note: This section also elicited several e-mails:Lude was such a jerk and a shitty fuck. You can tell him that.- ClarissaAprtl 13. 1999Lude was so much fun. Give him my new number: 323__  - __  . Do  you  know what  happened to  him?   Did he leave LA?And what about Johnny? What was all that crazy stuff In the Introduction about guns and blood? I mean If It wasn't his blood, whose was it? Hey kids. it takes two to tango.263 -	NatalieMay 30, 1999-	Bethaml June 6, 1999-Ed.  264  LUDE'S LIST REVISITED265267Day 2: 19:04[Outside tent; smoking another joint]  fair.Enough. I've had enough. Man, this is just notDay 2: 20:03[Outside tent] Radio (Navidson): [Static] We hear something [Noise] going [Noise] -ter it.Tom: Good luck bro'. [Silence]Day 2: 21:84[Outside tent]Radio (Karen): I'm scared Tom.Tom: What's the matter? Are the kids alright?268Radio (Karen): No, they're okay. I mean I think they're okay. Daisy, stays in her room. Chad prefers being outside. Who can argue with that. It's something else.Tom: What?Radio (Karen): All my Feng Shui- Oh Christ, this whole thing doesn't make any sense. How are Navy and Billy doing? Have they found anything? When are they coming back?Tom: They heard someone crying. I didn't get it all 'cause the reception was so poor. From what Ican gather, they're fine.Radio (Karen): Well, I'm not. I don't like being here alone, Tom. In fact I'm fucking fed up with being alone. [She starts crying] I don't like being scared all the time. Wondering if he's going to be alright, then wondering if I'm going to be alright if he's not, knowing I won't be. I'm so tired of being frightened like this. I've had enough Tom. I really have. After this, I'm leaving. I'm taking the kids and I'm going. This wasn't necessary. It could have been avoided. We didn't need to go through all this.Tom: [Gent]y] Karen, Karen, wait a minute. Just back up for a second. First, tell me what you were saying about your Feng Shui stuff.Radio (Karen): [Pause] The objects. I put all these objects around the house. You remember, to improve the energy, or some such shit.Tom: Sure. Crystals and bullfrogs, goldfish and dragons.Radio (Karen): Tom, they're all gone. Tom: What do you mean?Radio (Karen): [Crying harderJ They disappeared.Tom:	Hey Karen. Come on. Did you ask Daisy and Chad? Maybe they took them?Radio (Karen): Tom, they're the ones who told me. They wanted to know why I'd gotten rid of it all.Day 2: 22:19[Outside tent]Radio (Navidson): How's Karen [Static]? Tom: Not so good, Navy. She's pretty scared.You should get back here.Radio (Navidson): Wh[Static]? [Static] [Static] [Static] [Static]ear you.Tom: Navy? Navy? [Static]Day 2: 23:07[Outside tent]This is such bullshit. You hear me Mr. Monster... BULLSHIT!What kind of house do you got here anyway?No lights, no central heating, not even any plumbing! I've been shitting in a corner and pissing on a wall for two days.[Getting louder JDoesn't that irk you a little, Mr. Monster? I've been shitting in your corner. I've been pissing on your wall.[Then soft.er JOf course, the piss has dried up. And the crap just vanishes. You gobble it all up don't you?Turtles, shit, it doesn't matter to you. [Loud againJIndiscriminate bastard!   Doesn't it mak  e you sick? It makes me sick. Makes me wanna retch.[Long series of echoes]Day 3: 00:49[Outside tent; reaching into his ziploc bag for the last joint]And all through the house not a creature was stirring not even a mouse. Not even you Mr.Monster. Just Tom, poor ol' Tom, who was doing plenty of stirring around this house until finally he went stir crazy wishing there was a creature creatur8-fil[fill a mouse.Day 3: 00:84[Outside tent JRadio (Navidson): [Bang] We're in shit now... [Static]Tom: Navy, what's happening? I can barely hear you.Radio (Navidson): Jed's been shot, he's bleed [Static]Tom: Shot? By who?! Radio:[Pop-Pop-Pop JReston: I can't see a fucking thing. [crack ... crack ... crack... cracKJReston:     Awwwwwwwwwww    shit! [ ... cracK -BANG- craCK ... craCK crACK.cRACK.cRACK.CRACK.CRACK.]Tom: What the hell was that?!Radio (Navidson): Tom [Static] [Static]. I'm gonna [Static] [Static]  [Static]  [Static]  Wax.  We have to-shit- [Static ... JTom: I'm losing you Navy. Radio (Navidson): [Static]Tom: Navy, do you read me? Over.271 Day 3: 01:28[ Outside tentJRadio (Navidson): [Static] it's probably gonna take us a good eight hours to make it back to the stairs. Tom, I need you to meet me at the bottom [Static] We need help. We can't carry them up ourselves. Also, you're [Static] [Static] [Static] [Static]eed to [Static] a doctor [Static][Static ... JDay 3: 07:39[ Outside tentJ[Tom looks down the Spiral Staircase, ignites a lightstick and drops it. JAre you down there, Mr. Monster?[Below, the lightstick flickers and dies. Tom recoils.]No wa;y. Not gonna happen, Navy.  I've been alone in this shithole for almost three days and now you want me to go down there alone? No wa;y.[Tom descends a few steps, then quickly retreats]No can do.[Tom tries again, makes it down to the first flight] There that's not so bad. Fuck you, Mr. Monster!Yeah, FUCK YOU!!![Then as Tom starts down the second flight, the stairs suddenly stretch and drop ten feet. Tom looks up and sees the circular shape of the stairwell bend into an ellipse before snapping back to a circle again.][Tom's breathing gets noticeably more rapid. JYou ar,e here, aren't you Mr. Monster?272[A pause. And then out of nowhere comes thatgrowl. More like a roar. Almost deafening. As if it originated right next to Tom. J[Tom panics and sprints back up the stairs.The shot from the camcorder instantly becomes anincoherent blur of walls, banisters, and the dim light thrown by the halogen. J[A minute later, Tom reaches the top.)Day  3: 07:S3[Outside tentJTom: Karen ... Radio (Karen): Are you alright? Tom: I'm coming in.A Short Analysis of Tom's StoryHow does one approach this quirky sequence? What does it reveal about Tom? What does it say about The Navidson Record?For one thing, Navidson edited this segment months later. No doubt, what would soon take place deeply influenced the way he treated the material. As Nietzsche wrote, "It is our future that lays down the law of our today."All throughout Tom's Story, Navidson tenderly focuses on Tom's mirth and his ability to play in the halls of hell, those dolorous mansions of Isolation, Fear, and Doubt. He captures his brother trying to help Karen and him withtheir foundering relationship, and he reveals Tom's surprising strength in the face of such utter darkness and cold.There is nothing hasty about Tom's Story. Navidson has clearly put an enormous amount of work into these few minutes. Despite obvious technological limitations, the cuts are clean and sound beautifully balanced with the rhythm and order of every shot only serving to intensify even the most ordinary moment.This is a labor of love, a set piece sibling to Karen's short film on Navidson.Perhaps because Tom's antics are so amusing and so completely permeated with warmth, we could easily miss how hand shadows, an abundance of bad jokes and the birth of "Mr. Monster" ultimately come to mean Sorrow.If Sorrow is deep regret over someone loved, there is nothing but regret here, as if Navidson with his great eye had for the first time seen what over the years he never should have missed.Or should have missed all along.XIINot every cave search has a Terry  Tarkington  who knows the cave like his own home. Six months  earlier three boys had vanishedfrom theface ofthe earth near a similar Missouri cave they had been exploring. Despite weeklong search operations of incredible extent, they remain missing to this day.- William R. Halliday, M.D.American Caves and CavingWhen Navidson and Reston finally reach the  foot of the stairway,Tom is  not there.275 It is almost noon on the third day of the rescue attempt. Reston 's gloves are tom; his hands are blistered and bleeding. Wax's breathing is shallow and inconsistent. Jed's body weighs heavily on Navidson. All of which, bad as it is, is made even more unbearable when Navidson realizes hisbrother has not come down the stairs to meet them."We'll manage Navy," Reston says, trying to console his friend."I shouldn't be surprised," Navidson says gruffly. "This is Tom. This is what Tom does best.  He  lets you down."277 Which is when the rope slaps down on the floor.After making his unsuccessful bid to reach the bottom of the Spiral Staircase, Tom had retraced his way back to the living  room  where  he  began to construct a light gurney out of scrap wood. Karen helped out by going to town to purchase additional parts, including a pulley and extra rope.Navidson was wrong. Tom may not have gone down those stairs but the alternative he came up with was far better.280 Within minutes Navidson and Reston are hoisting Wax up the 100ft shaft. As a safety precaution, Navidson ties the end of the rope around the bottom banister. Thus if something should happen, causing them to lose their hold on the rope, the stretcher would still stop short of hitting thebottom by several feet.281 A few seconds later, a quarter clatters on the floor, indicating that Wax  has safely reached  the  top and the  stretcher can be re-lowered andreadied for the next load.282 Jed is next. Hand over hand, Navidson and Reston haul the body upwards, the excess rope gathering in coils around their feet. As Tom does not operate a Hi 8 during this sequence, we can only imagine what his reaction was as he struggled to lift the corpse over the railing. Nonetheless, a minute later, a second quarter clatters on the floor. Reston goes next.283 Navidson double-checks to make sure the end of the rope is still securely tied to the last banister and then begins hoisting his friend up theshaft. "You are one heavy bastard," Navidson grunts.Reston lights a green flare and gives Navidson a big toothy grin:"Going up like the fourth of July."284 At first everything seems to be proceeding smoothly. Slowly but surely, Navidson draws more and more slack rope down onto the floor, steadily lifting Reston up through the bore of those stairs. Then about half way up, something strange happens: the excess rope at Navidson's feet starts to vanishwhile the rope he holds begins to slip across his fingers and palms with enough speed to leave a burning gash. Navidson finally has to let go. Reston, however, does not fall. In fact, Reston's ascent only accelerates, marked by the burninggreen light he still holds in his hand.But if Navidson  is  no  longer holding onto  the rope, what could possiblybe pulling  Reston  to the286 Then as the stairway starts getting darker and darker and as that faintly illuminated circle above- the proverbial light at the end of the tunnel - starts getting smaller and smaller, the answer becomes clear:68Z:Navidson isinngOr	the	sta	r w	a	y	sreChn e  x	p	an	d	n	g, dropping,and as it slips,l6ZdraggngReston withit.г6'lThen at a certain point, the depth of the stairway begins to exceed the length of the rope. By the time Reston reaches the top the rope has gone taut, but the stairway still continues to stretch. Realizing what is about to happen, Navidson makes a desperate grab for the only remaining thread connecting him to home, but he is too late. About ten feet above the last banisterther0pe sn-294 -psссс 0 0 0  296297298299300 (Considering this was a 7/16" dynamic kemmantle cord it is not difficult to imagine the sort of force acting upon it.)250250Breaks at 6,000 to 7,000 pounds. - Ed.301Above him, Navidson hears a faint cry and then nothing. Not eventhe  tiniest hole of light.302 In The Reston Interview, we learn  from  Billy how  the  pulley  at  the top was tom from the banister. Luckily, Tom managed to grab him as well as  the rope before "the whole kit and caboodle"  plummeted  back  down  the shaft. "It took us a few minutes to get our bearings," Reston tells the camera. "We still weren't sure what happened."303 For the final shot of this section, Navidson loads his Arriflex with a 100ft of high-speed tungsten, uses a five minute ultra high intensity lightstick to illuminate the area, and rolls his Hi 8 to record sound.304 "For almost an hour," he begins. "I waited, rested, kept hoping something would change. It didn't. Eventually I started going over my stuff, trying to figure out what exactly to do next. Then all of a sudden I heard something clatter behind me. I turned around and there lying on  the  floor, just off to the side here, was the third quarter. [He holds up the coin] If Tom droppedit say a few minutes after Reston reached the top, then it's been falling for at least fifty minutes. I'm too muddled to do the math but it doesn't take a genius to realize I'm an impossible distance down. 25 1251 If Dft=l6t2 where time is calculated in seconds, the quarter would have to have fallen 27,273 miles exceeding even the earth's circumference at the equator by 2,371 miles. Calculating at 32 ft/sec2 the number climbs even higher to 54,545 miles. An "impossible distance" indeed.252253Mr. Truant never completed this note. - Ed.305 "I don't know how I'm going to get back. The radio's dead. If I can find my pack and Jed's, I'll have water and food for at least three days with maybe four days worth  of batteries.  But what will that  do? Non gratumanus rodentum. Hell."The film runs out here,leaving	nothing	else	behind	but	an	unremarkable308 white309 310 screen3 I I е312 XIIIThe MinataurmAlarga en la pradera una pausada Sombra, pero ya el hecho de nombrarlo Yde conjecturar su circunstanciaLo hace ficci6n del arte y no criaturaViviente de las que andan por la tierra.-	Jorge Luis Borges255THE WAITI.Teppet C. Brookes had seen plenty of children's drawings in her life. Having taught all grades from kindergarten through sixth grade, she was familiar with a vast array of stick figures, objects, and plots. This was not the first time she had seen a wolf, a tiger, or a dragon. The problem was that these wolves did not just stalk quietly through cadmium woods; their teeth drew madder and rose from each other's throats. The tigers did not just sleep on clover; they clawed Sunday red and indigo from celadon hills. And the dragon with its terrible emerald tail and ruby glare did not merely threaten; it incinerated everything around it with a happy blossom of heliotrope and gamboge.And yet even these violent fantasies were nothing compared to whatlay in wait at the centre of the drawing.The week before Navidson set out on the rescue attempt, Brookes had asked her third grade class to draw a picture of their house. The one Chad handed in had no chimney, windows, or even a door. In fact, it was nothing more than a black square filling ninety percent of the page. Furthermore, several layers of black crayon and pencil had been applied so that not even a speck of the paper beneath could show through. In the thin margins, Chad had added the marauding creatures.It was an extremely odd image and stuck with Brookes. She knew Chad had recently moved to Virginia and had already been involved in several scuffles in the school playground. Though she was hardly satisfied with her conclusion, she decided the picture reflected the stress caused by the move and the new surroundings. But she also made a note to keep an eye on him as the year progressed.She would not have to wait that long.255ее.. a slow shadow spreads across the prairie./ but still, the act of naming it, of guessing/ what is its nature and its circumstances/ creates a fiction. not a living creature,/not one of  those  who  wander  on  the  earth."  As  translated  by  Alastair Reid. -Ed. 313 Brookes usually went straight home after schoo  l,  but  that  Friday, quite by chance, she wandered  into  the  kindergarten  classroom.  A  number of drawings hung on the wall. One in particular caught her eye. The same wolves, the same tigers,  the  same  dragon,  and  at  the  centre,  though  this time only two-thirds the size of the page, an  impenetrable  square,  composed of several layers of black and cobalt blue crayon, with not even the slightest speck of white showing through.That picture had been drawn by Daisy.Though Brookes lacked a formal degree in psychology,  two decades of teaching, nearly half of it at Sawatcb Elementary, had exposed  her  to enough child abuse to last a lifetime.  She  was  familiar  with  the  signs  and not just the obvious ones like malnutrition, abrasion, or  unnatural  shyness. She had learned to read behavior patterns, eating habits, and even drawings. That said, she still had  never  encountered  such  a striking  similarity  between a five year old girl and her eight year old brother. The collective artistry was appalling. "Now heck, I've survived two  bad  marriages  and  seen  my  share of evil along the way. I don't get fazed by much, but let  me  tell  you  just seeing those pictures gave me the willies."256Teppet C. Brookes could have contacted the Department of Chil-dren's Services. She could have even called the Navidsons and requested a consultation.  That  Monday,  however,  when  neither  Chad  nor  Daisy showed up at school, she decided to pay the Navidsons a little visit herself. Willies or not, curiosity got the best of her:  "Truth be told, I just  had  to  take a gander at the place that had inspired those drawings."2572.During her lunch break, Brookes climbed into her Ford Bronco and made the fifteen minute drive to Ash Tree  Lane.  "I  thought the house was nice and quaint on the outside. I was expecting  something  else  I guess.  To tell you the truth, I almost drove off but since I'd made the drive, I decided I should at least introduce myself. I had  a good  excuse.  I  wanted  to  know why both kids were not in school.  And  heck,  if  it  was  Chicken  Pox,  I've had mine, so that was no matter. "259Brookes recalls looking at her watch as she walked toward the front door: "It was close to one. I knocked or rang the  door  bell,  I  don't remember. Then I heard the screams. Wails. I've heard that kind of grief before. I started banging real hard.  A second  later an  Afro-American  man  in a wheelchair opened the door. He seemed surprised to see me, like he was expecting someone else. I could tell  he  was  in  pretty  bad  shape,  his  hands all ripped up and bleeding. I didn't know what to  say  so  I told  him  I  was from the school. He just nodded and told me he was waiting for the ambulance and would I mind giving him a hand."Brookes was hardly prepared for the  slaughterhouse  she  was  about to enter: a woman sobbing in the living room, a big man holding  her,  two bodies in the kitchen surrounded by blood, and on the staircase Chad sitting next to his little sister Daisy who kept quietly singing to no one in particular words no one else could understand- "ba. dah. ba-ba."256Teppet C. Brookes' The Places I've Seen as told to Emily Lucy Gates (San Francisco: Russian Hill Press, 1996), p. 37-69.257Ibid., p. 38.258258Also refer back to footnote 212 dealing with Fran oise Minkowska. 259Teppet C. Brookes' The Places I've Seen, p. 142.314Brookes lasted five minutes, crossing herself too many times to help anyone. Fortunately the sheriff, the paramedics, and an ambulance soon arrived. "I had entered a war zone and I have to be honest, it overwhelmed me. I could tell my blood pressure was rising. You know sometimes you go into something thinking you're going to make all the difference. You're going to save the situation. Make it right. But that was too much for me. It was real humbling. [Starts to cry] I never saw the kids after that. Though I still have their drawings."2ro3.In some respects, the distillate of crayon and colour traced out by the hands of two children captures the awfulness at the heart of that house better than anything caught on film or tape, those shallow lines and imperfect shapes narrating the light seeping away from their lives. Brookes, however, is not the only one to have seen those drawings. Chad and Daisy's room is full of them, the monstrous black square getting progressively larger and darker, until in Chad's case, not even the barest margin survives.Karen knows her kids are in trouble. A clip of Hi 8 catches her telling them that as soon as their father returns she will take them all to "grandma's."Unfortunately, when Navidson, Tom and Reston disappear down that hallway early Saturday morning, Karen is put in an impossible situation: tom between monitoring the radios and looking after Chad and Daisy. In the end, separation from Navidson proves more painfu l. Karen keeps by the radios.For a while Daisy and Chad try to coax their mother to even briefly abandon her post. When that fails, they hang around the living room. Karen's inability to concentrate on them, however, soon drives both children away. A few times, Karen asks them to at least keep together. Daisy, however, insists on hiding in her room where she can play endlessly with her prized Spanish doll and the doll house Tom finally finished for her, while Chad prefers to escape outside, disappearing into the summoning woods, sometimes with Hillary, often now without, always well beyond the range of any camera, his adventures and anger passing away unobserved.That Saturday night Chad and Daisy have to put themselves to sleep. Then around ten o'clock, we watch as both children come racing down into the living room, claiming to have heard voices. Karen, however, has heard nothing more than the ever present hiss of the radios, occasionally interrupted by Tom calling in from the Great Hall. Even after she checks out their bedroom, she is unable to detect any unusual sounds. At least Chad and Daisy's obvious fear momentarily snaps Karen out of her obsession. She leaves the radios and spends an hour tucking her children into bed.Dr. Lon Lew believes the house enabled Karen to slowly break down her reliance on Navidson, allowing her a greater and more permanent distance: "Her children's fear coupled with their need for her further separated Karen from Navidson. Sadly, it's not the healthiest way to proceed. She merely replaced one dependency for another without confronting what lay at the heart of both."261Then on Sunday evening, both children ask her what happened to all her Feng Shui objects. We watch as they lead her from room to room,260"Toe Navidson Legacy" Winter's Grave, PBS, September 8, 1996.261Dr. Lon Lew's "Adding In to Dependent" Psychology Today, v. 27, March/April 1994, p. 32.315 pointing out the absent tiger, the absent marble horses, and even the absent vase. Karen is shocked. In the kitchen, she has to sit down, on the verge of a panic attack. Her breathing has quickened, her face is covered in sweat. Fortunately, the episode only lasts a couple of minutes.Along with several other critics, Gail Kalt dwells on Karen's choice of words during her conversation with Tom on the radio when she refers to Feng Shui as "some such shit."Karen has begun to deconstruct her various mechanisms of denial. She does not continue to insist on the ineffectual science of Feng Shui. She recognizes that the key to her mis- ery lies in the still unexplored fissure between herself and Navidson. Without knowing it she has already begun her slow turn to face the meaning, or at least one meaning, of the darkness dwelling in the depths of her house.262Certainly Karen's step away from denial is made more evident when right after her talk with Tom she gathers up any remaining items having to do with Feng Shui and throws them in a box. David N. Braer in his thesis "House Cleaning" notes how Karen not only adds to this collection the books already mentioned in Chapter V but also includes the Bible, several New Age manuals, her tarot cards, and strangest of all a small hand mirror.263 Then after depositing the box in the garage, she looks in on her children one more time, comforting them with an open invitation to sleep in the living room with her if they like. They do not join her but the grateful tone of their murmurs seems to suggest they will now sleep better.Helen Agallway asserts that by "Monday, October 8th, Karen hasmade up her mind to depart. When Tom reappears in the living room and informs her that Navidson is only hours away from getting back, she keeps the children home from school because she has every intention of leaving for New York that day. "264Upon returning from town with bundles of rope, the pulleys, andseveral trolley wheels, Karen begins packing and orders the children to try to do the same. She is in fact in the middle of frantically removing several win ter coats and shoes from the foyer closet when Tom races out of the hallway, pushing the gurney in front of him, tears gushing from his eyes.4.When Karen sees Wax her hand flies to her mouth, though it hardly prevents the cry.265 Reston emerges from the hallway next, the growl262Gai1 Kalt's "The Loss of Faith-(fhank God!)" Grand Street, v. 54, fall 1195, p. 118. 263Oavid N. Braer's "House Cleaning" Diss. University of Tennessee, 1996, p. 104.264Helen Agallway's "The Process of Leaving" Diss. Indiana University, 1995, p. 241.265Many  have  complained  that  The  Holloway  Tape   as  well  as  the  two   untitled  sequences  frequently identified as ''The Wait" and ''The Evacuation" are incomprehensible. Poor resolution, focus, and sound (with the exception of the interviews shot afterward in 16mm) further exacerbate the difficulties posed by so many jarring cuts and a general chronological jumble. That said, it is crucial to recognize how poor quality and general incoherence is not a reflection of the creator's state of mind. Quite the contrary, Navidson brilliantly used these stylistic discrepancies to further drive home the overwhelming horror and dislocation experienced by his family during "The Evacuation." For other books devoted specifically to reconstructing316growing louder behind him, threatening to follow him into the living room. Frantically, he slams the door and bolts all four locks, which  no  doubt thanks to the door's acoustic rating actually seems to keep that terrible sound at bay.Karen, however, starts shouting: "What are you doing? Billy? What about Navy? Where's Navy?"Even though he is still crying, Tom tries to pull her away from the  door, "We lost him.""He's dead?" Karen's voice cracks."I don't think so," Tom shakes his head."But he's still down there.Way down.""Well then go in and get him! Go in and get your brother!" Then starting to shriek, "You can't just leave him there."But Tom remains motionless, and when Karen  finally  looks  him  in the face and beholds  the  measure of his fear and grief, she crumples  into  a  fit of sobs. Reston goe s to the foyer and calls an ambulance.Meanwhile, Wax, who  has  been  temporarily  left  alone  in  the kitchen, quietly groans on the stretcher. Next to him lies Jed's body. Unfortunately Tom did not realiz.e how much blood had soaked into Jed's clothes. Blind with his own sorrow, he unknowingly  covered  the  linoleum with a smear of red when he set the corpse down. He even  stepped  in  the blood and tracked footprints across the carpet as he  lurched  back  to  the living room to console Karen.Perhaps inevitably, all the commotion draws the children out of theirroom.Chad catches sight of the body first. There is something particularlydisquieting about watching the way he and  Daisy  walk  slowly  toward  Jed and then over to Wax's side.  They  both  seem  so  removed.  Almost  in  a daz.e."Where's our daddy?" Chad finally asks him. But Wax is delirious. "What. I need what-er."Together Chad and  Daisy  fill a glass  from the  sink.  Wax,  however, is far too weak to sit up  let alone drink.  They end up dribbling  small  drops  of water on his cracked lips.A few seconds later there is a loud  banging  on  the  front  door. Reston wheels over and opens it. He expects to see the paramedics but finds instead a woman in her late 40s with almost perfectly grey hair. Chad and Daisy retreat to the staircase. They too step in the blood, their  feet  leaving small red imprints on the floor. Chad's  teacher fails  to  utter even  one  word or offer any sort of assistance. Tom continues to sit with Karen, until eventually her muted cries join the wail of sirens rapidly approaching their house on Ash Tree Lane.While The Navidson Record clearly states that Wax Hook  survived, it does not dwell on any of the details following his departure. Numerous articles published after the  film's  release,  however,  reveal  that  he  was almost immediately rushed by helicopter to a hospital in Washington, D.C. where he was placed in an I.C.U. There doctors discovered  that  fragments from the coracoid process and scapula spine had turned his trapezius, deltathe narrative see The Navidson Record: The Novelization (Los Angeles: Goal Gothum Publication, 1994); Thorton I. Cannon Jr. 's The Navidson Record: Action and Chronologies (Portland: Penny Brook Press, 1996); and Esther Hartline's Thru Lines (New York: Dutton, 1995).317and infraspinous muscles to hamburger. Miraculously though, the bullet and bone shrapnel had only grazed the subclavian artery. Wax eventually recovered and after a long period of rehabilitation returned to a life of outdoor activities, even though it is doubtful he will ever climb Everest now let alone attempt to solo the North Face. By his own admission, Wax also keeps clear of caves not to mention his own closet. 266Even as Wax was loaded into the ambulance, police began an investigation into Jed Leeder's death. Reston provided them with a copy of the tape from his Hi 8 showing Holloway shooting Wax and Jed. To the police, the murder appeared to have taken place in nothing more than a dark hallway. As APBs went out, patrolmen began a statewide search which would ultimately last several weeks. That afternoon, Karen also insisted on introducing the authorities to that all consuming ash-walled maze. Perhaps she thought they would attempt to locate Navidson. The results were hardly satisfying.In The Reston Interview, Billy shakes his head and even laughs softly:It wasn't a bad idea. Tom and I'd had enough too. Karen just expected too much, especially from a town that has one sheriff and a hand- ful of deputies. When the sheriff came over, Karen immediately dragged him over to the hallway, handed him a flashlight and the end of a spool of Monel fishing line. He looked at her like she was nuts, but then I think he got a little spooked too. At that point in time, no one was about to go in  there  with  him. Karen because of her claustrophobia. Tom, well he was already going to the bottom of a bottle. And me, I was trying to fix my wheel- chair. It was all bent from when I came up on the pulley. Even so though, I mean even if my chair had been fine, going back would have been hard. Anyway Sheriff Oxy, Ax- ard, Axnard, I think that was his name, Sheriff Axnard went in there by himself. He walked ten feet in and then walked straight back out, thanked us and left. He never said a word about where he'd been and he never came back. He spent a good amount of time looking for Holloway everywhere else but never in the house.Right  after  the  release of The Navidson Record,	Sheriff Josiah Axnard was accosted by numerous reporters. One clip captures the Sheriff in the process of climbing into his squad car: "For once and for all, that house was completely searched and Holloway Roberts was not in it." Six months later the Sheriff consented to an interview on National Public Radio (April 18, 1994) where he told a slightly different story. He confessed to266See U.S. News & World Report, v. 121, December 30, 1996, p. 84; Premiere, v. 6, May 1993, p. 68-70; Life, v. 17, July 1994, p. 26-32; Climbing, November I, 1995, p. 44; Details, December 1995, p.118.318 walking down "an unfamiliar hallway." "It's not  there  no  more,"  he continued. "I checked. Nothing unusual there now but ...  but  back  then there was ... there was a corridor  on  the south  wall.  Cold,  no  lights  and goin' on into nowhere. It creeped me like I never been creeped  before,  like  I was standing in a gigantic grave and I remember then, clearly, like it was yesterday, thinking to myself 'If Holloway's in here I don't need to  worry. He's gone. He's long gone."'2676.That night Karen stays in the living  room,  crying  off and  on, leaving the hallway door open, even though,  as  she  explains  to  Reston,  standing  a foot too close will cause her to experience heart palpitations and  tremors. Reston, however, badly in need of some  shut  eye  almost  immediately  falls into a deep sleep on the couch.There is one particularly horrible moment when the phone r ings and Karen answers on speaker.  It  is  Jed  Leeder' s  fiancee  calling  from Seattle, still unaware of what has happened. At first Karen tries to keep the news to herself but when the  woman  begins  to  detect  the  lie,  Karen  tells  her  the  truth. A panicked shout cracks over the speaker phone and then decays into terrified cries. Abruptly  the  line  goes  dead.  Karen  waits  for  the woman to call back but the phone does not ring again.Of course during alJ this, the children are once again abandoned, leftto look after each other, with no  one  around  to  help  translate  the horror  of the afternoon. They hide in their room, rarely saying a thing. Not even Tom makes  an  appearance  to  even  temporarily  contest  their  fears  with  the soothing lyric of  a bedtime  story  about otters,  eagles,  and the occasional tiger.When Tom had  returned from the  grave,  he  was  convinced  he  had lost his brother. Both he  and  Reston  had   heard  the  great  Spiral  Staircase yawn beneath them, and Reston's Hi 8 had even caught a glimpse of Navidson's light sinking, finally vanishing into the deep like a failing star.As Billy explains in The Reston Interview: "Tom felt  like  a part  of him had  been ripped away. I'd never seen him act like that. He started shaking and tears just kept welling up in his eyes. I tried to tell him the stairway could shrink  just  like  it   had   stretched,  and   he  kept  agreeing  with me,  and  nodding, but that didn't stop the tears. It was terrifying to watch. He loved his brother that much."After   watching  the   paramedics   take   Wax   away,   we follow  Tom's	, retreat to the study where he manages to locate among his things the last bitof a joint. Smoking it, however, offers absolutely no relief. He is no longer crying  but  his  hands   stiIJ    shake.  He  takes  several  deep  breaths  and   then  as267Nor is that the first time the word "grave" appears in reference to  the  house  in  The  Navidson  Record. When Reston suggests Navidson  use  the  Leica distance  meter,  he  adds,  "That  should  put  this  ghost  in  the grave fast." Holloway in Exploration #3  mutters:  "Cold a grave." Also  in  the  same   segment  Wax  grunts a variation, feel like I'm in a coffin." In one of her  Hi journal entries,  Karen  tries  to  make  light  of hersituation   when  she  remarks:  "It's  like  having  a giant  catacomb   for a family  room."  Tom   in  Tom's Storytells the "grave-maker" joke, while Reston,  during  the  rescue  attempt,  admits  to   Navidson:  "You  know,  I feel like I'm in a grave." To which Navidson responds, "Makes you wonder what gets buried here." "Well judging  by   the   size,"  Reston   replies.  "It  must  be the   giant  from  Jack  and  the   fucking  Beanstalk." Giantindeed. 26826826269See Index. - Ed.319 Karen is getting ready to show Sheriff Axnard  the  hallway,  he  steals  a sip  of bourbon. 270Regrettably, Tom fails to stop at a sip. A few hours later he has finished off the whole fifth as well as half a bottle of wine.  He might  have spent all night drinking had exhaustion  not  caught  up  with  me.  Of  course, the following morning does nothing to erase yesterday's  events.  Tom attempts to recover lost ground by accompanying Reston back to the Great Hall. Much to their surprise, however, they discover the hallway now tenninates thirty feet in, nor are there any doors or alternate  hallways branching off it. Karen returns to her room when she sees Tom and Reston reappear only five minutes later.Even though he too is suffering from Navidson's disappearance, Reston still does his best to counsel Tom, and at least for a few hours Tom successfully resists drinking anything more. Chad apparently had escaped from the house at dawn and now refuses to come in or say a word  to  his  mother. Tom eventually finds him among the branches of a tree just past the edge of the property line.  Nevertheless,  no  amount  of coaxing  will  induce  the eight year old to come back in.In Billy's words (The Reston Interview again): "Tom told me Chad was happy in his tree and Tom was hard  pressed  to  start  telling  him  inside was a better place. However, there was something else. The kid apparently bolted from the house when be heard some kind of murmuring, something about a walker in darkness, then a bang, like a gun shot, and the sound of a man dying. Woke him right up, he said. Back then I assumed he'd just been dreaming."Judging from the  house footage,  what  seems  to  really  push  Tom over the edge that second day is when he reenters the house and finds Daisy-her forearms acrawl with strange scratches-swaying in front of the hallway screaming "Daddy!" despite the absence of a reply, the absence of even an echo. When Karen finally comes  downstairs  and  carries  her daughter outside to help her  find Chad, Tom  takes  the  car  and  goes  into town.  An  hour  later  he  returns  with  groceries,  unnecessary  medical supplies, magazines and the reason for the excursion in  the  first  place-a case of bourbon.On the third and fourth day, Tom does not  emerge once  from  the  study, attempting to drink his grief into submission.Karen, on the other hand, begins to deal with the consequences of Navidson's disappearan ce. She rapidly starts paying more attention to her children, finally luring Chad back into the house where she can oversee  his (and Daisy's) packing efforts. In a brief clip we catch Karen on the phone, presumably with her mother, discussing their imminent departure from Virginia.Reston remains in the  living room, frequently attempting to raise Navidson on the radio, though never  hearing  more   than  static  and   white noise. Outside a thunder storm begins to crack and spit rain at the windows. Lightning builds  shadows.  A  wind  howls  like  the  wounded,  filling everyone with cold, bone weary dread.Toward midnight, Tom emerges from the study, steals  a  slice  of lemon meringue pie and then  whips up some hot  chocolate for  everyone. Whole milk, unsweetened cocoa, sugar, and a splash of vanilla extract all brought to a careful simmer. Billy and Karen appreciate the gesture. Tom270see Hannon Frisch's "Not Even Bill's Acquaintance" Twenty Years In The Program ed. Cynthia Huxley (New York: W.W. Norton &Company, 1996), p. 143-179.320 has not stopped drinking, and even doses his cup with a  shot  of  Jack Daniels, but he does seem to have leveled out, not exactly achieving some sublime moment of clarity but at least attaining a certain degree of self- control.Then Tom, though he is only wearing at-shirt, takes  a deep  breath  and marches into the hallway again. A minute later he returns."It's no more than ten feet deep now," Tom grunts. "And Navy's been gone over four days.""There's still a chance," Reston grumbles.Tom tries to shrug off the certitude that his brother is dead. "You know," he continues very quietly, still staring at  the  hallway.  "There  once was this guy who went  to Madrid.  He  was  in  the  mood  for something new so he decided to try out this small restaurant and order-sight unseen-the house specialty."Soon a plate arrived loaded with rice pilaf and two large meaty objects."'What's this?' he asked his waiter. "'Cojones, Senor.'"'What are cojones?'" 'Cojones' the waiter answered, 'are the testicles of the buJl that lost in the arena today.'"Though a little hesitant at first, the man still went ahead and  tried them. Sure enough they were delicious."Well a week later, he goes back to the  same  restaurant and orders  the same thing. This  time, when his  dish  arrives,  the  meaty  objects  are much smaller and don't taste nearly as good."He immediately calls the waiter over. "'Hey,' he says. 'What are these?' "'Cojones' the waiter replies."'No, no,' he explains. 'I had them last week and they were much bigger.'" 'Ah Senor,' the waiter sighs. 'The bull does not lose every time."'Tom's joke attempts to deflect some of the pain inherent in this protracted wait, but of course nothing can really diminish the growing knowledge that Navidson may have vanished for good.Tom eventually return s to the study to try and sleep, but  Karen  remains in the living room, occasionally dozing off, often trying to reach Navidson on the radios, whispering his name like a lullaby or a prayer.27 1In the 5:09 A.M. Hi 8 clip, Karen rests her head on her hands  and starts to sleep. There is  something eerie about  the  odd  stillness  that  settles on the living room then, not even remotely affected by  Reston's  snoring  on the couch. It is as if this scene bas been impossibly fixed  and  will  never change again, until out of the blue, presumably before the cameras can shut off-no longer ordered to run by the motion detectors-Navidson limps out of the hallway. He is clearly exhausted, dehydrated,  and  perhaps  a  little unable to believe he has actually escaped the maze. Seeing Karen, he271 Karen's emotional response is not limited to longing. Earlier that evening she retreated to the bathroom, ran the water in the sink, and recorded this somewhat accusatory Hi 8 journaJ entry: "Damn you for going, Navy. Damn you. [Starting to cry] This house, this home, was supposed to help us get closer. It was supposed to be better and stronger than some stupid marriage vow. It was supposed to make us a family. [Sobbing] But, oh my god, look what's happened."321immediately kneels beside her, attempting to wake her with the gentlest word. Karen, however, drawn so abruptly from her dreams, cannot arrest the shocked gasp summoned by the sound and sight of Navidson. Of course, the moment she realizes he is not a ghost, her terror dissolves into a hug and a flood of words, awakening everyone in the house.Several essays have been written about this reunion and yet not one of them suggests Karen has reverted to her former state of dependency. Consider Anita Massine's comments:Her initial embrace and happiness is not just about Navidson's return. Karen realizes she has fulfilled her end of the bargain. Her time in that place has come to an end. Navidson's arrival means she can leave.272Or Garegin Thorndike Taylor's response:Where previously Karen might have dis- solved into tears and her typical clutching, this time she is clearly more reserved , even terse, relying on her smile for defense.213Or finally Professor Lyle Macdonough:The reason Karen cries out when Navidson wakes her has nothing to do with the inherent terror of that hallway or some other cauche- mar. It has only to do with Navidson. Deep down inside, she really does fear him. She fears he will try to keep her there. She fears he will threaten her slowly forming inde- pendence. Only once the reins of consciousness slip into place does she resort to expected modes of welcome.274Karen clearly refuses to allow Navidson's appearance to alter her plans. She does not accept that merely his presence entitles him to authority. Her mind is made up. Even before he can begin to recount his desperate flight up those stairs or how he found Holloway's equipment,275 Karen announces her intention to leave for New York City that night.272Anita Massine's Dialects of Divorce In American Film In The Twentieth Century (Oxford, Ohio: Miami University Press, 1995), p. 228.273Garegin Thorndike Taylor's "The Ballast of Self' Modern Psyche, v. 18, 1996, p. 74. Also refer back toChapter D and V.274Professor Lyle Macdonough's "Dissolution of Love in The Navidson Record," Crafton Lecture Series, Chatfield College in St. Martin Ohio, February 9, 1996.275In the following excerpt from The Last Interview, Navidson sheds some more light on how he managedto emerge from those dark hollows: "I remember I had found Jed's pack so I knew I was okay on water and food for a while. Then I just started climbing up the stairs, one step at a time. At first it was slow going. That roar would frequently rise up the central shaft like some awful wail. At times it sounded like voices. Hundreds of them. Thousands. Calling after me. And then other times it sounded like the wind only there is no wind there."I remember finding The Holloway Tape off one of the landings. I had caught sight of a few bits of neon marker still attached to the wall and wandered over to take a look. A minute later I saw his pack and the camera. It was all just sitting there. The rifle was nearby too, but there was no sign of him.322Of course by the time they had all sat down and watched The Holloway Tape, Navidson was the only one who had second thoughts about abandoning the cold lure of those halls.HOLLOWAY8.More than a handful of people have tried to[ ]276explain Holloway's madness.That was pretty odd to come across something, let alone anything, in that place. But what made finding that stuff particularly strange was how much I'd been thinking of Holloway at the time. I kept expecting him to jump around some comer and shoot me."After that, I was a little spooked and made sure to chuck the ammo down into that pit off to my right. Over and over, I kept wondering what happened to his body. It was making me crazy.  So  I tried  fixing  my mind on other things."I remember thinking then that one of the toenails on my right foot, the big toenail, had torn loose and started to bleed. That's when De- ... Delia! came into my head which was awful."Finally though, I began concentrating on Karen. On Chad and Daisy. On Tom and Billy. I thought about every time we'd gone to a movie together or a game or whatever,  ten  years  ago,  four  months  ago, twenty years ago. I remembered when I first met Karen.  The way  she   moved.  These  perfect  angles  she'd make with her wrists. Her beautiful long fingers. I remembered when Chad was born. All that kind of stuff, trying to recall those moments as vividly  as  possible.  In  as  much  detail. Eventually  I went  into  this  dare and the hours began to melt away. Felt like minutes."On the third night J tried to take another step and found there  wasn't  one.  I was  in  the   Great  Hall again. Oddly enough though, as I soon found out, I was still a good ways from home. For some reason everything had stretched there too. Now all of a sudden, there were a  lot  of  new  dead  ends.  It  took  DE another day and night  to  get back  to  the  living room, and  to  tell  you  the  truth  I was  never  sure  I was  going to make it until I finally did."323 324