[Page Five]world im sorry i cant stop thinking of her never have never will cant forget how i ran with her   like where was i going to   really run  i was twelve miles from  nowhere  i  had  no one to her to no window to pass her through out of harms way no tom there i was no tom there and then that tiny bag of bones just started to shake and it  was  over  she  died right in my hands the hands of the guy who took three minutes two minutes whatever a handful of seconds to photograph her  and now she was gone that poor little girl in this god awful world i miss her i miss delial imiss the man i thought i was before i met her the man who would have saved her  who would have  done  something  who  would have been tom maybe hes the one im looking for or maybe im looking for all of themi miss u i love uthere's no second ive lived you can't call your ownNavy367393 The Bister-Frieden-Josephson Criteria pays a great  deal  of attention to the incoherence present in the letter, the dissatisfaction  with  the  self,  and most of all the pain Navidson still feels over the image  he  burned  into  the retina of America almost two decades ago.As was already mentioned in Chapter II, before the release of TheNavidson Record neither friends nor family nor colleagues knew that Delial was the name Navidson had given  to the starving Sudanese child. For reasons of his own, he  never revealed  Delial's  identity  to  anyone,  not  even to Karen. Billy Reston thought she was some mythological pin-up girl: " I didn't know. I sure as hell never connected the name with that photo."368The Navidson Record solved a great mystery when  it included Karen's shot of the name written on the back of the print  as  well  as Navidson's  letter.  For  years  photojournalists  and  friends  had  wondered who Delial was and why she meant so much to Navidson.  Those  who  had asked usually received one of several responses: "I  forget,"  "Someone close to me," "Allow a man a little mystery" or just a smile. Quite a few colleagues accused Navidson of being enigmatic on purpose and so out of spite let the subject drop.Few were disappointed when they learned that Delial referred to the subject of his Pulitzer Prize-winning photograph. "It made perfect sense  to me," said Purdham Huckler of the New York Times. "That  must  have  been  a  crushing thing  to  witness.  And  he  paid  the   price   too."369   Lindsay Gerkn ard commented, "Navidson ran straight into the brick wall all great photojournalists inevitably run into: why aren't I doing something about this instead of just photographing it? And when you ask that question,  you hurt."370 Psychologist Hector Llosa took Gerknard's observation a little further when he pointed out at the L.A. Times  Convention  on  Media  Ethics last March: "Photojournalists  especially  must  never  underestimate  the power and influence of their images.  You may be thinking,  I've  done nothing in this moment except take a photo (true) but realize you  have  also done an enormous amount for society at large (also true!)."371Nor   did   evaluations   of  Navidson's   burden    stop   with  commentsmade by his associates. Academia soon marched in to interrogate the literary consequences created by the Delial revelation. Tokiko Dudek commented on how "Delia] is to Navidson what the albatross is to Coleridge's  mariner.  In both cases, both men shot their mark only  to  be  haunted by  the accomplishment, even though Navidson did not actually kill Delia!. "372 Caroline Fillopino recognized intrinsic elements of penance in Navidson's return to the house but she preferred Dante to Coleridge: "Delia! serves  the same role as Beatrice.  Her  whispers  lead Navidson  back  to  the  house.  She is  all  he  needs  to  find.  After all locating (literally)  the  souls  of the  dead =368Billy Reston interviewed by Anthony  Sitney on "Evening Murmurs,"  KTWL, Boulder, Colorado, January 4, 1996.369Personal  interview  with  Purdham  Huck.ler,  February  17, 1995.370Personal  interview  with  Lindsay Gerknard,  February  24, 1995.371Hector Llosa speaking at the L.A. Times Convention on Media Ethics on March 14, 1996.372See Tokiko Dudek's "Harbingers of Hell and/or Hope" in Authentes Journal, Palomar College, September, 1995. p. 7. Also consider Larry Burrows who in the 1969 BBC film Beautiful  Beautiful remarked: "... so often I wonder whether it is my right to capitalize, as I feel, so often, on the grief  of others. But then I justify, in my own particular thoughts, by feeling that I can contribute a little to the understanding of what others are going through; then there is a reason for doing it."394 safety in loss."373 However unlike Dante, Navidson never encountered his Beatrice again. 374In the most sardonic tones, Sandy Beale of The New Criticism once considered how contemporary cinema would have treated the subject of Navidson's guilt:If The Navidson Record had been a Holly- wood creation, Delial would have appeared  at the heart of the house. Like something out of Lost Horizon, dark fields would have given way to Elysian fields, the perfect setting for a musical number with a brightly costumed Delial front and center, drinking Shirley Temples, swinging on the arms of Tom and Jed, backed by a chorus line  which would have included Holloway and everyone else in Navidson's life (and our life for that matter) who had ever died. Plenty of rootbeer and summer love375 to go around. 376But The Navidson Record is not a Hollywood creation and through the course of the film Delial appears only once, in Karen's piece,  bordered  in black, frozen in  place  without  music  or  commentary, just Delial:  a memory, a photograph, an artifact.To this day the treatment of Delial by The Bister-Frieden-Josephson Criteria is still considered harsh and particularly insensate  toward international tragedy. While Navidson's empathy for the child is not entirely disregarded, The Criteria asserts that she soon exceeded the meaning of her own existence: "Memory, experience, and time turned her bones into a trope for everything Navidson had ever lost."The BFJ Criteria posits that Delial's prominence in Navidson's last letter is a repressive mechanism enabling him to at least on a symbolic  level deal with his nearly inexpressible loss. After all in  a very  short  amount  of time Navidson had seen the rape  of  physics.  He  had watched one man murder another and then pull the trigger on himself. He  had  stood  helplessly by as his own brother was crushed and consumed. And finally he had watched his lifelong companion flee to her mother and probably  another lover, taking with her his children and bits of his sanity.It is not by accident that all these elements appear like ghosts in  his letter. A more permanent end to his relationship with Karen seems to  be implied when he writes 'Tm leaving tomorrow"  and describes his missive as a "will." His invocation of the memory of the members  of the  first team as well as others sounds almost  like  a protracted  good-bye.  Navidson  is tying up loose ends and the reason, or so The BFJ Criteria claims, can be detected in the way he treats the Sudanese girl  still  haunting  his past:  "It  is  no coincidence that as Navidson begins to dwell on Delial he mentions his brother three times: 'I had no one to  pass  her to.  There  was  no  window  to pass her through out of harms way. There was no Tom there. I was no373Caroline Fillopino's "Sex Equations" Granta, fall 1995. p. 45.374During Exploration #5 Navidson had no illusion about what he would find there. While staring into those infernal halls, we can hear him mutter: "Lazarus is dead again."375see Appendix F. 376Sandy Beale's "No Horizon" in The New Criticism, v. 13, November 3, 1993. p. 49.395 Tom there. Tom, maybe he's the one I'm looking for.' It is a harrowing admission full of sorrow and defeat- 'I was no Tom there'-seeing his brother as the life-saving (and line-saving) hero he himself was not."377Thus The Bister-Frieden-Josephson Criteria staunchly refutes The Kellog-Antwerk Claim by reiterating its argument that Navidson's return  to the house was not at all motivated by the need to possess it but rather "to be obliterated by it."Then on January 6, 1997 at The Assemblage of Cultural Diagnosti- cians Sponsored By The American Psychiatric Association held in Washington, D.C., a husband and wife team brought before an audience of 1,200 The Haven-Slocum Theory which in the eyes of many successfully deflated the prominence of both The Kellog-Antwerk Claim and  the infamously influential Bister-Frieden-Josephson Criteria.Ducking the semantic conceits of prior hypotheses, The Haven- Slocum Theory proposed to first focus primarily on "the house itself and its generation of physiological effects." How this direction would resolve the question of "why Navidson returned to the house alone" they promised to show in due course.Relying on an array of personal interviews, closely  inspected secondary sources, and their own observations, the married couple began to carefully adumbrate their findings in what has since become known as The Haven-Slocum Anxiety Scale or more simply as PEER. Rating the level of discomfort experienced following any exposure to the house, The Haven- Slocum Theory assigned a number value "0" for no effect and "10" for extreme effects:POST-EXPOSURE EFFECTS RATING0-1: Alicia Rosenbaum: sudden migraines. 0-2: Audrie McCullogh: mild anxiety.2-3: Teppet C. Brookes: insomnia.3-4: Sheriff Axnard: nausea; suspected ulcer.t 4-5: Billy Reston: enduring sensation of cold.5-6: Daisy: excitement; intermittent fever; scratches; echolalia 6-7: Kirby "Wax" Hook: stupor; enduring impotence.tt7-8: Chad: tangentiality; rising aggression; persistent wandering. 9: Karen Green: prolonged insomnia; frequent unmotivatedpanic attacks; deep melancholia; persistent cough. ttt 10: Will Navidson: obsessive behavior; weight loss; night ter- rors; vivid dreaming accompanied by increased mutism.tNo previous history of stomach ailments.ttNeither the bullet wound nor the surgery should have effected potency.tttAll of which radically diminished when Karen began work on What Some Have Thought and A Brief History Of Who 1Love.The Haven-Slocum TheoryT" - I377Here then Jacob loses Esau and finds he is nothing without him. He is empty, lost and tumbling toward his own annihilation. But as Robert Hert poignantly asks in Esau and Jacob (BITIW Publications, 1969),p. 389: ''What did God really know about brothers (or for that matter sisters)? He was after all an only childand before it all an equally lonely father."396 The Haven-Slocum Theory does not lightly pass over Karen's remarkable victory over the effects of the house: "With the eventual exception of Navidson, she was the only one who attempted to process the ramifications of that place. The labor she put into both film shorts resulted in more moderate mood swings, an increase in sleep, and an end to that nettlesome cough."Navidson, however, despite his scientific inquiries and early postulations, finds no relief. He grows quieter and quieter, often wakes up seized by terror, and through Christmas and the New Year starts eating less and less. Though he frequently tells Reston how much he longs for Karen and the company of his children, he is incapable of going to them. The house continues to fix his attention.So much so that back in October when Navidson first came across the tape of Wax kissing Karen he hardly responded. He viewed the scene twice, once at regular speed, the second time on fast forward, and then moved on to the rest of the footage without saying a word. From a dramatic point of view we must realize it is a highly anticlimactic moment, but one which, as The Haven-Slocum Theory argues, only serves to further emphasize the level of damage the house had already inflicted upon Navidson: "Normal emotional reactions no longer apply. The pain anyone else would have felt while viewing that screen kiss, in Navidson's case has been blunted by the grossly disproportionate trauma already caused by the house. In this regard it is in fact a highly climactic, if irregular moment, only because it is so disturbing to watch something so typically meaningful rendered so utterly inconsequential. How tragic to find Navidson so bereft of energy, his usual snap and alacrity of thought replaced by such unyielding torpor. Nothing matters anymore to him, which as more than a handful of people have already observed, is precisely the point."Then at the beginning of March, "while tests on the wall samplesprogressed," as The Haven-Slocum Theo ry observes, Navidson begins to eat again, work out, and though his general reticence continues, Reston still sees Navidson's new behavior as a change for the better: "I was blind to his intentions. I thought he was starting to deal with Tom's death, planning to end his separation with Karen. I figured he had put the Fowler letters behind him along with that kiss. He seemed like he was coming back to life. Hell, even his feet were on the mend. Little did I know he was stock-piling equipment, getting ready for another journey inside. What everyone knows now as Exploration #5."378Where The Bister-Frieden-Josephson Criteria made Navidson's Jetter to Karen the keystone of its analysis, The Haven-Slocum Theory does away with the document in a footnote, describing it as "drunken babble chock-ful1 of expected expressions of grief, re-identification with a lost object, and plenty of transference, having less to do with Navidson's lost brother and more to do with the maternal absence he endured throughout his life. The desire to save Delia! must partly be attributed to a projection of Navidson's own desire to be cradled by his mother. Therefore his grief fuses his sense of self with his understanding of the other, causing him not only to mourn for the tiny child but for himself as well."379378Interview with Billy Reston. KTWL, Boulder, Colorado, January 4, 1996. TI9see pages 22-23. 397 What The Haven-Slocum Theory treats with greater regard are the three dreams380 Navidson described for  us in  the Hi 8 journal entries he made that March. Again quoting directly from the Theory: "Far better than words influenced by the depressive effects of  alcohol, these  intimate glimpses of Navidson's psyche reveal more about why he  decided  to  go back and what may account  for  the  profound  physiological  consequences that followed once he was inside."Mia Haven entitles her analysis of Dream #1: "Wishing Well: A Penny For Your Thoughts ... A Quarter  For  Your  Dreams  ...  You  For The Eons." Unfortunately, as  her  treatment  is  difficult  to  find  and purportedly exceeds 180  pages,  it is only possible to summarize the contents here.As Haven recounts, Navidson's first dream places him within an enormous concrete chamber.  The  walls,  ceiling,  and  floor  are  all  veined with mineral deposits and covered in a thin ever-present film of moisture. There are no windows or exits. The air reeks of rot, mildew, and despair.Everywhere people wander aimlessly around, dressed in soiled togas. Toward the centre of this room there lies what appears to  be  a large  well. A dozen people sit on the edge, dangling their feet inside. As Navidson approaches this  aperture,  he realizes two  things:  I)  he has died and this is some kind of half-way station, and 2) the only way out is down through the well.As he sits on the edge, he beholds a strange and very  disconcerting sight. No more than twenty feet below is the surface of an incredibly clear liquid. Navidson presumes it is water though he senses it is somewhat more viscous. By some peculiar quality intrinsic to itself, this  liquid  does  not impede but actually clarifies the impossible vision of  what  lies  beneath:  a long shaft descending for miles  ultimately  opening  up  into  a  black bottomless pit which instantly fills Navidson with  an  almost  crippling  sense of dread.Suddenly next to him, someone leaps into the well. There is a slight splash and the figure begins to sink slowly but steadily toward the darkness below. Fortunately after a few seconds, a violent blue light envelops  the figure and transports it somewhere else.  Navidson realizes,  however,  that  there are other figures down there who  have  not  been  visited  by  that  blue light and are instead writhing in fear as they continue  their  descent  into oblivion.Without anyone  telling him, Navidson somehow  understands  the logic of the place: 1) he can remain  in  that  awful  room  for  as  long  as  he  likes, even forever if he chooses-looking around, he can tell that some people have been there for thousands of years-or he can jump into the380As such a great  variety  of written  material outside of The Haven-Slocum Theory  has  been  produced  on the subject of Navidson's dreams, it seems imprudent not to at least  mention  here  a few  of the   more  popular ones: Calvin Yudofsky's "D-Sleep/S-Sleep Trauma: Differentiating Between Sleep Terror Disorder and Nightmare Disorder" in (N) REM (Bethel, Ohio: Besinnung Books, 1995); Ernest Y. Hartmann's Terrible Thoughts: The Psychology and Biology of Navidson's Nightmares (New York: Basic Books, Inc., 1996); Susan Beck's "Imposition On The Hollow" published in the T.S. Eliot  Journal  v.  32,  November  1994; chapter four in Oona Fanihdjarte's The Constancy of Carl Jung (Baltimore, Maryland: Johns Hopkins University Press, 1995); Gordon Kearns, L. Kajita, and M.K. Totsuka's Ultrapure Water, the Super- Kamiokande Detector and Cherenkov Light (W.H. Freeman and  Company, 1997); also see www-sk.icrr.u-tokyo.ac.jp/doc/sk/; and of course Tom  Curie's  essay    "Thou  Talk'st of nothing. True,  I talk of dreams"(Mab Weekly, Celtic Publications, September 1993).398 well. 2) If he bas lived a good life, a blue  light  will  cany  him  to  some ethereal and gentle place. If, however, he has lived an "inappropriate life," (Navidson's words) no light will visit him and he will sink into the horrible blackness below where he will fall forever.The dream ends with Navidson attempting to assess the life he has led, unable to decide whether he should or should not leap.Haven goes to great lengths to examine the multiple  layers  presented by this dream, whether the classical inferences in the togas or the sexless "figure" Navidson observes immolated by the blue light. She even digresses for a playful romp through Sartre's Huis Clos, hinting how that formidable work helped shape Navidson's imagination.ln the end though, her most important insight concerns Navidson's relationship to the house. The concrete chamber resembles the ashen walls, while the bottomless pit recalls both the Spiral Staircase and the abyss that appeared in his living room the night Tom died. Still what matters  most  is not some discovery made within those walls but rather within himself. In Haven's words: "The dream seems to suggest that in order for Navidson to properly escape the house he must first reach an understanding about his own life, one he still quite obviously lacks."For Dream #2, Lance Slocum provides the widely revered analysis entitled "At A Snail's Place." Since his piece, like Haven's, is also impossible to locate and reportedly well over two hundred pages  long, summary will again have to suffice.Slocum retells how in the  second  dream  Navidson  finds  himself in the centre of a strange town where some sort  of feast  is  in  progress.  The smell of garlic and beer haunts the air. Everyone is eating and drinking and Navidson understands that for some undisclosed reason they will now have enough food to last many decades.When the feast finally comes to an end, everyone grabs a candle and begins to march out of the town. Navidson follows and soon  discovers  that they are heading for a the hill on which lies  the  shell  of an  immense  snail. This sight brings with  it a new understanding: the town has slain the creature, eaten some of it and preserved the rest.As they enter the enormous wind (as in  "to wind something up"), their candlelight illuminates walls that are white as pearl and as opalescent as sea shells. Laughter and joy echoes up the twisting path and Navidson recognizes that everyone has come there to honor and thank the snail. Navidson, however, keeps climbing up through  the  shell.  Soon  he  is  alone and as the passageway continues to  get  tighter  and  tighter,  the  candle  he holds grows smaller and smaller. Finally as the wick begins  to sputter, he stops to contemplate whether he should tum around or continue on. He understands if the candle goes out he  will  be  thrust  into  pitch  darkness, though he also knows finding his way back will not be difficult. He gives serious thought to staying. He wonders if the approaching dawn will fill  the shell with light.Slocum begins with an amusing reference to Doctor Dolittle before turning to consider the homes  which  ancient  arnrnonites38 1  constructed around an almost logarithmic axis, a legacy they would eons later bestow38 1See Edouard Monod-Herzen's Principes de morphologie generate, vol. I (Paris:  Gauthier-ViJJars,  1927), p. 119.399 upon the imagination of countless poets and even entire cultures.382 Primarily Slocum concentrates on chapter 5 of Bachelard's The Poetics of Space as translated by Maria Jolas (Boston: Beacon Press, 1994), choosing to allow Navidson's dream the same consideration literature of its kind receives.For example, Slocum views the question of Navidson's personal growth in tenns of the enigma posed by the snail before it was eventually solved. Here he quotes from the translated Bachelard text:How can a little snail grow in its stone prison? This is a natural question, which can be asked quite naturally. (I should prefer not to ask it, however, because it takes me back to the questions of my childhood.) But for the Abbe de Vallemont it is a question that remains unanswered, and he adds: "When it is a matter of nature, we rarely find ourselves on familiar ground. At every step, there is something that humiliates and mortifies proud minds." In other words, a snail's shell, this house that grows with its inmate, is one of the marvels of the universe. And the Abbe de Vallemont concludes that, in general . . . shells are "sublime subjects of contemplation for the mind."383(Page 118)382For example, even today the Kitawans of the South Pacific view the spiral of the Nautilus Pompilius as the ultimate symbol of perfection.383Toe original text:Comment le petit escargot dans sa prison de pierre peut-il grandir? Voila une question nature/le, une question qui se pose naturellement. Nous n'aimons pas a la faire, car elle nous renvoie a nos questions d'enfant Cette question reste sans reponse pour l'abbe de Vallemont qui ajoute: "Dans la Nature on est rarement en pays de connaissance. Il y a a chaque pas de quoi hummer et mortifier les Esprits superbes." Autrement dit, la coquille de l'escargot, la maison qui grandit a la mesure de son hote est une merveille de l'Uruvers. Et d'une mani re generale, conclut l'abbe de Vallemont ([Abbe de Vallemont's Curiosites de la nature et de l'art sur la vegetation ou ['agriculture et le jardinage dans leur perfection, Paris, 1709, 1re Partie], p. 255), Jes coquillages soot "de sublimes sujets de contempla- tion pour !'esprit."For a more modem treatment of shell growth see Geerat J. Vermeij's A Natural History of Shells (Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1993). Chapter 3 "The Economics of Construction and Maintenance" deals directly with matters of calcification and the problems of dissolution, while chapter I "Shells and the Questions of Biology" considers the sense of the shell in a way that differs slightly from Vallemont's: "We can think of shells as houses. Construction, repair, and maintenance by the builder require energy and time, the same currencies used for such other life functions as feeding, locomotion, and reproduction. The energy and time invested in shells depend on the supply of raw materials, the labor costs of transfonning these resources into a serviceable structure, and the functional demands placed on the shell... The words "economics" and "ecology" are especially apt in this context, for both are derived from theGreek oikos, meaning house. In short, the questions of biology can be phrased in terms of supply and demand, benefits and costs, and innovation and regulation, all set against a backdrop of environment and history."400 In particular, Slocum's attention is held by Bachelard's parentethical384 reference to his own childhood and presumably the rite of growing up: "How extraordinary to find in those ever expandable brackets such a telling correlation between the answer to the Sphinx's riddle and Navidson's crisis."Indeed, by continuing to build on Bachelard, Slocum treats the snail in Navidson's dream as a "remarkable inversion" of the house's Spiral Staircase: "Robinet believed that it was by rolling over and over that the snail built its 'staircase.' Thus, the snail's entire house would be a stair- well. With each contortion, this limp animal adds a step to its spiral staircase. It contorts itself in order to advance and grow" (Page 122; The Poetics of Space). 385Still more remarkable than even this marvelous coincidence is the poem Bachelard chooses to quote by Rene Rouquier:385Qriginal text:Robinet a pense que c'est en roulant sur lui-meme que le limacon a fabrique son "escalier." Ainsi, toute la maison de l'escargot serait une cage d'escalier. A chaque contorsion, ('animal mou fait une marche de son escalier en colimacon. II se contorsionne pour avancer et grandir.And of course who can forget Derrida's remarks on this subject in footnote 5 in "Tympan" in Marges de la philosophie (Paris: Les Editions de Minuit, 1972), p. xi-xii:Tympanon, dionysie, labyrinthe, fils d'Ariane. Nous parcourons rnaintenant (debout, marchant, dansant), compris et enveloppes pour n'en jamais sortir, la forme d'une oreille construite autour d'un barrage, toumant autour de sa paroi inteme, une ville, done (labyrinthe, canaux semi-circulaires-on vous previent que Jes rampes ne tiennent pas) enroulee comme un limacon autour d'une vanne,d'une digue (dam) et tendue vers la mer; fermeesur elle-meme et ouverte sur lavoie de la mer. Pleine et vide de son eau, l'anamnese de la conque resonne seule sur une plage. Comment une relure pourrait-eUe s'y produire, entre terre et mer?3 86In his own note buried within the already existing footnote, in this case not 5 but enlarged now to 9, Alan Bass (-Trans for Margins of Philosophy (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, I98 I)) further illuminates the above by making the following comments here below:"There is an elaborate play on the words limafon and conque here. Limafon (aside from meaning snail) means spiral staircase and the spiral canal that is part of the inner ear. Conque means both conch and concha, the largest cavity of the external ear."386"1'ympanum, Dionysianisrn, labyrinth, Ariadne's thread. We are now traveling through (uprtght. walking, dancing), included and enveloped within it. never to emerge, the form of an ear constructed around a barrier, going round  its inner walls, a city, therefore (labyrtnth, semicircular canals-warning: the spiral walkways do not hold) circling around like a stairway winding around a lock, a dike (darn) stretched out toward the sea; closed in on itself and open to the sea's path. Full and empty of its water, the anamnesis of the choncha resonates alone on the beach." As translated by Alan Bass. - Ed.401  C'est un escargot enorme Qui descend de la montagne Et le ruisseau l'accompagne De sa bave blancheTres vieu.x, il n'a plus qu'une comeC'est son court clocher carre.387Navidson is not the first to envision a snail as large as a village, but what fascinates Slocum more than anything else is the lack of threat in the dream."Unlike the dread lying in wai t at the bottom of the wishing well," Slocum comments. "The snail provides nourishment. Its shell offers the redemption of beauty, and despite Navidson's dying candle, its curves  still hold out the promise of even greater illumination. All of which is in stark contrast to the house. There the  walls  are  black,  in  the  dream  of the  snail they are white; there you starve, in the dream the  town  is fed for a lifetime; there the maze is threatening, in the dream the spiral is pleasing; there you descend, in the dream you ascend and so on."Slocum argues that what makes the dream so particularly resonant isits inherent balance: "Town, country. Inside, outside. Society, individual. Light, dark. Night, day. Etc., etc. Pleasure is derived from  the  detection  of these elements. They create harmonies and out  of harmonies  comes  a balm for the soul. Of course the more  extensive  the  symmetry,  the  greater  and more lasting the pleasure."Slocum contends that the dream planted the seed in Navidson'smind to  try a different path, which was exactly what he did do in Exploration #5. Or more accurately:" The dream was the flowering of a seed previously planted by the  house  in  his  unconsciousness." When  bringing  to a conclusion "At A Snail's Place," Slocum further opens up his analysis to the notion that both dreams, "The Wishing Well" and "The Snail," suggested to Navidson the possibility that he could locate either within himself or" within that vast missing" some emancipatory sense to put to rest his confusions and troubles, even put to rest the confusions and troubles of others, a curative symmetry to last the ages.For the more troubling and by far most terrifying Dream #3, Mia Haven and Lance Slocum team up together to ply the curvatures of  that strange stretch of imaginings. Unlike #1 and #2, this dream is particularly difficult to recount and requires that careful attention be paid to the various temporal and even tonal shifts.387Rene Rouquier's La boule de verre (Paris: Seghers), p. 12.388388¥A giant snail comes down from the mountain  followed  by  a stream  of its  white  slime. So very old, it has only one horn left, short and square like a church tower." - Ed.402 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .[2 .pa.ge.s.m.is.si.ng.] 389   . . . . . . . . . . . . ..	. .389___________________________________	_------------------------------------390 405 As they start to sum up The Haven-Slocum Theory, the couple quotes from Johanne Scefing's posthumously published journal:At this late hour I'm unable to put aside thoughts of God's great sleeper whose his- tory filled my imagination and dreams when I was a boy. I cannot recall how many times I read and re-read the story  of Jonah,  and  now as I dwell on Navidson's decision to return to the house alone I tum to my Bible and find among those thin pages these lines:So they took up Jonah, and cast him forth into the sea: and the sea ceasedfrom her raging.(Jonah I: I5)392It seems a somewhat bizarre reference, until Haven and Slocum produce a second PEER table documenting what happened once Navidson entered the house on Ash Tree Lane:POST-EXPOSURE EFFECTS RATING0: Alicia Rosenbaum: headaches stopped. 0: Audrie McCullogh: no more anxiety.1: Teppet C. Brookes: improved sleeping. 1: Sheriff Axnard: end of nausea.2: Billy Reston: decreased sensation of cold.3: Daisy: end of fever; arms healing; occasional echolalia. 1: Kirby "Wax" Hook: return of energy and potency.4: Chad: better goal-directed flow of ideas and logical se- quences; decreased aggression and wandering.1: Karen Green: improved sleeping; no more unmotivated panic attackst; decreased melancholia; cessation of cough.1: Will Navidson: no more night terrors; cessation of mutism. tt toark enclosed places will still initiate a response.ttevidenced by Navidson's use of the Hi 8 to record his thoughts.The Haven-Slocum Theoryª -2 Even more peculiar, the house became a house again.As Reston discovered, the space between the master bedroom  and the children's bedroom had vanished. Karen's bookshelves were once again flush with the walls. And the hallway in the living room now resembled a shallow closet. Its walls were even white.The sea, it seemed, had quieted."Was Navidson like Jonah?" The Haven-Slocum Theory asks." Did he understand the house would calm if he  entered  it,  just  as  Jonah understood the waters would calm if he were thrown into them?"inside me, born decades ago, long before I finally beheld in a dream the face and meaning of my horror.391S ee footnote 310 and corresponding reference. - Ed.392Johanne Scefing's The Navidson Record, trans. Gertrude Rebsamen (Oslo Press, May 1996), p. 52.406 Perhaps strangest of all, the consequences of Navidson's journey are still  being  felt  today. In  what  remains  the  most  controversial  aspect   of The Haven-Slocum Theory, the concluding paragraphs claim that people not even directly associated with the events on Ash Tree Lane have been affected. The Theory, however, is careful to distinguish between  those  who have merely seen The Navidson Record  and  those  who  have  read  and written, in some cases extensively, about the film.Apparently, the former group shows  very  little evidence of any  sort of emotional or mental change:" At most, temporary." While the latter group seems to have been more radically influenced: "As  evidence  continues  to come in, it appears that a portion of those who  have  not  only  meditated  on  the house's perfectly dark and empty corridors but articulated  how  its pathways have murmured within them have discovered  a  decrease  in their own anxieties. People suffering anything from sleep disturbances to sexual dysfunction to poor rapport with others seem to have enjoyed some improvement."393However, The Haven-Slocum Theory  also  points  out  that  this course is not without risk. An even  greater  number  of people  dwelling  on The Navidson Record have shown an increase in obsessiveness, insomnia, and incoherence: "Most of those who chose to abandon their interest soon recovered. A few, however, required counseling and in some instances medication and hospitalization. Three cases resulted in suicide."393Of course as Patricia B. Nesselroade, M.D. noted in  her  widely  regarded  self-help  book  Tamper  With This (Baltimore: Williams & Wilkins, 1994),  p.  687:  "If one  invests  some  interest  in,  for example,  a tree and begins to form some thoughts about this  tree  and  then  writes  these thoughts  down,  further examining the meanings that surface, allowing  for unconscious  associations  to  take  place,  writing  all  this  down  as well, until the subject of the tree branches off into the subject of the self, that person will enjoy immense psychological benefits."407 XVIIIAshe, goodfor caske hoopes: and if neede require, plow worke, as aljo for many things els.-	A briefe and true report of the new found land of Virginia by Thomas Hariot servant to Sir Walter Raleigh - "a member of the Colony, and there imployed in difcouering."Though Karen and Navidson both went back to Ash Tree Lane, Karen did not go there for the house. As she explains in a video entry: "I' m going because of Navy."During the first week of April, she stayed in close contact with Reston who made the long drive from Charlottesville more than a few times. As we can see for ourselves, Navidson's car never moves from the driveway and the house continues to remain empty. In the living room a closet still stands in place of the hallway, while upstairs the space between the master bedroom and the children's bedroom is lost to a wall.At the start of the second week of April, Karen realizes she will have to leave New York. Daisy and Chad seem to have shaken off the debilitating effects of the house and their grandmother is more than happy to look after them while Karen is gone, believing her daughter's trip will take her one step closer toward selling the house and suing Navidson.On April 9th, Karen heads south to Virginia. She checks into a Days Inn but instead of going directly to the house makes an appointment with Alicia Rosenbaum. The real estate agent is more than happy to see Karen and discuss the prospects of putting the house on the market."Oh lord" she exclaims when she sees the Hi 8 in Karen's hands. "Don't point that at me. I'm not at all photogenic." Karen sets the camera down on a file cabinet but leaves it on, thus providing a high-angle view of the office and both women.Karen probably planned to have a short discussion with Alicia Rosenbaum about the sale of the house, but the real estate agent's uncensored shock changes everything. "You look terrible" she says abruptly. "Are you alright, honey?" And so with that, what was supposed to have been a business meeting instantly becomes something else, something otherly, a sisterly get together where one woman reads in another signs of strain invisible to a man and sometimes even a mother.Rosenbaum fills a mug with hot water and hunts around in a cabinet for some tea bags. Slowly but surely Karen begins to talk about the separation. "I don't know," Karen finally says as she stirs her chamomile tea. "I haven't seen him in almost six months.""Oh dear, I'm so sorry."Karen keeps turning the spoon in small circles but cannot quite stop the tears. Rosenbaum comes around the desk and gives Karen a hug. Then408 pulling up a chair tries her best to offer some consolation: "Well at the very least, don't worry about the house. It always sells."Karen stops stirring the tea. "Always?" she asks."After you came to me with that whole mysterious closet bit," Rosenbaum continues, ignoring the phone as it starts to ring. "I did a little research. I mean I'm as new to this town as you all were, though I am southern born. Truth be told, I  hoped  to  fmd  some  kind  of  ghostliness. [She laughs] All I found  was  a pretty  comprehensive  list  of owners. A lot of 'em. Four in the last eleven years. Almost twenty in the last fifty. No one seems to stay there for more than a few years. Some died, heart attacks  that sort of thing and the rest just disappeared. I mean we lost track of 'em. One man said the place was too roomy, another one called it 'unstable.'  I went ahead and checked if the house was built on an old Indian burial ground.""And?""Nope. In fact, definitely not. It's all  too  marshy  with  winter  rains and the James River nearby. Not a good place for a cemetery.  So  I  looked for some murder or witch burning-though I knew, of course, that bad all been Massachusetts folk. Nothing.""Oh well.""Did you ever see any ghosts?" "Never.""Too bad. Virginia, you know, has a  tradition  of  ghosts-though I've never seen one.""Virginia does?" Karen asks softly."Ob my yes. The curse tree, the ghost  of Miss  Evelyn  Byrd,  Lady Ann Skipwith, ghost alley, and lord knows a whole handful more.394 Unfortunately, the only thing distinguished about your home's past, but  I guess it's part of everybody's past around here, and it's no mystery either, would be the colony, the Jamestown Colony."It is not surprising The Navidson Record does not pause to consider this reference, especially considering that Karen is far more concerned about the house and Navidson's  whereabouts than  she  is  with  17th  century history. However having some familiarity  with  the  bloody  and  painful origins of that particular toe hold in the new world reveals just how old  the roots of that house really are.Thanks  to  The  London  Company,  on   May  2,   1607,   105 colonistswere deposited on a marshy peninsula where they established what soon became known  as  the  Jamestown  Colony.  Despite  pestilence,  starvation,  and frequent massacres carried out by native Indians, John Smith effectively held the village together until an injury forced him to return to England. The ensuing winter of 1609-1610 almost killed  everyone  and  had  it  not  been for394See L. B. Taylor, Jr.'s The  Ghosts of Virginia (Progress Printing Co., Inc., 1993)	For a more international look at hauntings consider E. T. Bennett's Apparitions & Haunted Houses: A Survey of Evidence (London: Faber & Faber, 1939); Commander R. T. Gould, R. N.'s Oddities: A Book of Unexplained Facts (1928); Walter F. Prince's The Psychic in the House (Boston: Boston Society for Psychical Research, 1926); and Suzy Smith's Haunted Houses for the Million (Bell Publishing Co., 1967).409 Lord De la Warr's timely arrival with supplies those still living would have fled.395With the help of John Rolfe's tobacco industry, the marriage of Pocahontas, and the  naming  of  Jamestown as  the  Virginia  capital,  the colony  survived.  However  Nathaniel  Bacon's  fierce  battle  with  the tidewater aristocrat Sir William Berkeley soon left the village in flames. Eventually the capital of Virginia was moved to Williamsburg and  the settlement  quickly  decayed.  In  1934  when  park  excavations  began,  very little remained of the site. As Park Warden Davis Manatok reported, "The marsh land has obscured if not completely consumed the monuments of the colony."396All of which is relevant only because of a strange set of  pages currently held at the Lacuna Rare Books  Library  at  Horenew College  in South Carolina.Supposedly the journal in question first turned up at The Wishart Bookstore in Boston. It had apparently been mixed in with several crates of books dropped off from a nearby estate. "Most of it was dreck" said owner Laurence Tack. "Old paperbacks, second rate volumes of Sidney Sheldon, Harold Robbins, and the like. No one here paid them much attention."397Eventually the journal was bought for a remarkable $48.00 when a Boston University student noticed "Warr" penciled inside the cover of the badly damaged volume. As she soon discovered, the book was  not  De  la Warr's but one he had kept in his library. It seems that prior to Warr's arrival, during "the starving time" of the winter of 1610, three  men  had  left the Jamestown Colony in search of game. As the journal reveals, they traveled for several days until they stumbled onto an icy field where they camped for the night The following  spring  two  of  their  thawing  bodies were found along with this priceless document.For the most part, the entries concern the quest for game, the severe weather and the inevitable understanding that cold and hunger were fast colluding into the singular sensation of death:18 Janiuere, 1610We fearch398for deere or other Game and alwayes there is nothing. Tiggs believef our luck will change. Likewife we muft also believe or elfe in the name of the Lorde take charge of the Knowledge that we are all dead men.20	Janiuere, 1610More fnow. Bitter cold. This is a terrible Place we have stumbled on. It has been a Week fince we haue fpied one living thing. Were it not for the ftorm we would have abandoned it. Verm was plagued by many bad Dreames last night.21	Janiuere, 1610The ftorm will not break. Verrn went out to hunt but returned within the houre. The Wind makes a wicked found in the Woods. Ftrange as it muft feem, Tiggs, Verrn, and I take comfort in the found. I fear much more the ftlence here. Verm tellf me he dreamt of Bones last night. I dreame of the Sunne.22	Janiuere, 1610We are dying. No food. No fhelter. Tiggs dreamt he faw all fnow about us tum Red with blood.And then the last entry:399Mr. Truant has mistaken the long "S" for an "f." John Bell the publisher for BritishTheatre abolished the long "S" back In 1775. In 1786, Benjamin Franklin Indirectly approved of the decision when he wrote that "the Round s begins to be the Mode and In nice printing the Long S Is rejected entirely." - Ed.413 23	Janiuere, 1610Ftaires! We haue found ftaires!400Nowhere in Lord De la Warr's personal journals is there a mention of stairs or any clue about what might have happened to the third body. Warr, however, does refer to the journal as a clear example of death's madness and in a separate letter consigns the delicate relic to the flames. Fortunately the order, for whatever reason, was not carried out and the journal survived, winding up in a Boston book store with only Warr's name to link the fragile yellow pages to this continent's heritage.Nevertheless, while the journal may offer some proof that Navid- son' s extraordinary property existed almost four hundred years ago, why that particular location40 1 proved so significant remains unanswered. In 1995, parapsychologist Lucinda S. Hausmaninger claimed that Navidson's place was analogous to the blind spot created by the optic nerve in the retina:"It is a place of processing, of sense-making, of seeing. "40 2 However, shesoon altered this supposition, describing it as "the omphalos  of all  we are. "40 3 It did not matter that the house existed in Virginia, only that itexisted in one place: "One place, one (eventual) meaning."404 Of course recent discoveries shatter both of Hausmaninger's theories.40 5As everyone knows, instead of delving into the question of location or the history of the Jamestown Colony, The Navidson Record focuses on Alicia Rosenbaum in her dingy little office talking to Karen about her troubles. It may very well be the best response of all: tea, comfort, and social intercourse. Perhaps Rosenbaum's conclusion is even the best: "lord knows why but no one ever seems comfortable staying there," as if to imply in a larger way that there are some places in this world which no one will ever possess or inhabit.Karen may hate the house but she needs Navidson. When the video tape flickers back to life, it is 9:30 P.M. and Ash Tree Lane is dark. Alicia Rosenbaum waits in her car, engine idling, headlights plastering the front door. Slowly Karen makes her way up the walk, her shadow f alling across the door step. For a moment she fumbles with her keys. There is the brief click of teeth on pins in the heart of the dead bolt and then the door swings open. In the foyer, we can see almost six months of mail strewn on the floor, surrounded by wisps of dust.400Jamestown Colony Papers: The Tiggs, Verm & I Diary (Lacuna Library founded by The National Heritage Society) v. xxiii. n. 139, January 16IO, p. 18-25.40 1The exact location of the house has been subject to a great deal of speculation. Many  feel  it belongssomewhere in the environs of Richmond.  However Ray X. Lawlor,  English professor emeritus at the University of Virginia, places Ash Tree Lane "closer to California Crossroads. Certainly not far  ftom Colonial Williamsburg and the original Jamestown colony. South of Lake Powell  but most assuredly northwest of Bacons Castle." See Lawlor's "Which Side of the James?" in Zyzzyva, fall 1996, p. 187.402Lucinda S. Hausmaninger's "Oh Say Can You See" in The Richmond Lag Zine, v.119, April 1995,p. 33.403Lucinda S. Hausmaninger's "The Navy Navel" in San Clemente Prang Vibe, v. 4, winter 1996, p. vii.404Ibid., p. viii.40 5See Appendix C. - Ed.414 Karen's breathing increases: "I don't know if I can do this" (then shouting) "Navy! Navy, are you in there?!" But when she finally locates the light switch and discovers the power has been turned off- "Oh shit No way - "-she backs out of the house and into a jarring jump cut which returns us again to the front of the house, this time without Alicia Rosenbaum, evening now replaced by beady sunlight. April IQlh, 11 :27A.M. Everything is green, pleasant, and starting to bloom. Karen has avoided the B-movie cliche of choosing evening as the time to explore a dangerous house. Of course real horror does not depend upon the melodrama of shadows or even the conspiracies of night.Once again Karen unlocks the front door and tries the switch. Thistime a flood of electric light indicates all is well with the power company. "Thank you Edison," Karen murmurs, sunshine and electricity steeling her resolve.The first thing she points the Hi 8 at are the infamous bookshelves upstairs. They are flush with the walls. Furthermore, as Reston also reported, the closet space has vanished. Finally, she goes back down to the living room, preparing to face the horror which we might imagine still reaches out of her past like a claw. She approaches the door on the north wall. Perhaps she hopes Reston has locked it and taken the keys, but as she discovers soon enough, the door opens effortlessly.Still, there is no infernal corridor. No lightless and lifeless place.There is only a closet barely a foot and a half deep with white walls, a strip of molding, and all of it slashed from ceiling to floor with daylight streaming in through the windows behind her.Karen actually laughs but her laughter comes up short. Her only hope of finding Navidson had been to confront what terrified her most. Now without a reason to be afraid, Karen suddenly finds herself without a reason to hope.After spending the first few nights at the Days Inn, Karen decides to move back into the house. Reston visits her periodically, and each time he comes they go over every alcove and corner looking for some sign of Navidson. They never find anything. Reston offers to stay there with her but Karen says she actually wants to be alone. He looks noticeably relieved when she insists on seeing him to his van.The following week, Alicia Rosenbaum starts bringing by prospec- tive buyers. A couple of newlyweds seems especially taken by the place. "It's so cute" responds the pregnant wife." Small but especially charming," adds the husband. After they leave, Karen tells Rosenbaum she has changed her mind and will at least for the time being still hold onto the house.Every morning and evening, she calls Daisy and Chad on her cellular phone. At first they want to know if she is with their father, but soon they stop asking. Karen spends the rest of her day writing in a journal. As she has turned back on all the wall mounted Hi 8s and kept them resupplied with fresh tapes, there is ample footage of her hard at work at this task, filling page after page, just as she sometimes fills the house with peals of laughter or now and then the broken notes of a cry.Though she eventually uses up the entire volume, not one word isever visible in The Navidson Record. To this day the contents of her journal remain a mystery. Professor Cora Minehart M.S., Ph.D. argues that the415 actual words are irrelevant: "process  outweighs  product. "406   Others, however, have gone to great lengths to suggest a  miraculous  and  secret history enfolded within those  pages.407  Katherine  Dunn  is  rumoured  to have invented her own version of Karen's journal.Karen, however, does not restrict her activities to just writing. She frequently retreats outside where she  works  on  the  garden,  weeding, clipping, and even planting. We often find her singing quietly to herself, anything from popular tunes, old  Slavic  lullabies,  to  a  song  about  how  many ways her life has changed and how she would like to get her  feet back on the ground.It   seems   that   the   most   significant   observations   concerning  thissegment concern Karen's smile. There  is  no  question  it  has  changed. LesterT. Ochs has traced its evolving shape from Karen's days as a cover girl, through the months spent living at the house,  the  prolonged  separation  in New York, to her eventual return to the house:Whether on the cover of Glamour or Vogue, Karen never failed to form her lips into those faultlessly symmetrical curves, parted just enough to coyly re- mark on her barely hidden teeth, so perfectly poised between shadow and  light,  always  guaranteed  to spark fantasies of  further  interiority. No  matter which magazine she appeared in, she always pro- duced the same creation over and over  again. Even after they moved to Ash Tree Lane, Karen  still  of- fered up the same art to whomever she encountered. The house, however, changed  that.  It  deconstructed her smile until by the time they  had  escaped  she had no smile at all.Then further on:By the time she returned to  Virginia,  some  expres- sion of joy and relief, albeit rare, was also returning. The big difference though was that now  her  smile was completely unmannered. The  curve  of  each  lip no longer mirrored the other. The interplay was har- monic, enacting a ceaseless dance of comment and compliment, revealing  or  entirely  concealing  her teeth, one smile often containing a hundred. Her ex- pression was no longer a frozen structure  but  a melody which for the first time accurately  reflected how she was feeling inside. 408This of course responds to the extraordinary moment on the evening of May 4th , when surrounded by candles, Karen suddenly  beams  brighter  than  she has before, running her hands through her hair, almost laughing, only to406Cora Minehart's Recovery: Methods and Manner with an introduction by Patricia B. Nesselroade (New York: AMACOM Books, 1994), p. 1I.407See Darren Meen's Gathered God (New York: Hyperion, 1995) and Lynn Rembold's Stations of Eleven(Norman, Oklahoma: University of Oklahoma Press, 1996).408Lester T. Ochs' Smile (Middletown, CT: University Press of New England/ Wesleyan University Press, 1996), p. 87-91.416 cover her face a few moments later, her shoulders shaking as she starts to weep. Her reactions seem entirely unmotivated until the following morning when she offers a startlin revelation."He's still alive,' she tells Reston over the phone. "I heard him lastnight. I couldn't understand what he said. But I know I heard his voice."Reston arrives the next day and stays until midnight, never hearing a thing. He seems more than a little concerned about Karen's mental health."If he is still in there Karen," Reston says quietly. "He's been there for over a month. I can't see how there's any way he could survive."But a few hours after Reston leaves, Karen smiles again, apparently catching somewhere inside her the faint voice of Navidson. This happens over and over again, whether late at night or in the middle of the day. Sometimes Karen calls out to him, sometimes she just wanders from room to room, pushing her ear against walls or floors. Then on the afternoon of May IOtfi, she finds in the children's bedroom, born out of nowhere, Navidson's clothes, remnants of his pack and sleeping bag, and scattered across the floor, from comer to comer, cartridges of fihn, boxes of 16mm, and easily a dozen video tapes.She immediately calls Reston and tells him what has happened,asking him to drive over as soon as he can. Then she locates an AC adapter, plugs in a Hi 8 and begins rewinding one of the newly discovered tapes.The angle from the room mounted camcorder does not provide a view of her Hi 8 screen. Only Karen's face is visible. Unfortunately, for some reason, she is also slightly out of focus. In fact the only thing in focus is the wall behind her where some of Daisy and Chad's drawings still hang. The shot lasts an uncomfortable fifteen seconds, until abruptly that immutable surface disappears. In less than a blink, the white wall along with the drawings secured with yellowing scotch tape vanishes into an inky black.Since Karen faces the opposite direction, she fails to notice the change. Instead her attention remains fixed on the Hi 8 which has just finished rewinding the tape. But even as she pushes play, the yawn of dark does not waver. In fact it almost seems to be waiting for her, for the moment when she will finally divert her attention from the tiny screen and catch sight of the horror looming up behind her, which of course is exactly what she does do when she finds out that the video tape shows417 XIXContrary to what Weston asserts, the habit of photographic seeing-of looking at reality as an array of potential photographs-creates estrangement from, rather than union with, nature.- Susan SontagOn Photography"Nothing of consequence" was how Navidson described the quality of the film and tapes rescued from the house."That was early on," Reston adds." When he had just started staying with me in Charlottesville. He reviewed every piece of footage  there  was, edited some parts of it and then just  shipped  everything  off to  Karen.  He was really unsatisfied."409In the eyes of many, the footage from Exploration A offered an exemplary first-look at what lay down  the  hallway.  To  Navidson,  however, the venture was spoiled by the limited resolution of the Hi 8 and "ridiculous lighting." Film taken during Exploration #4 was much more successful in capturing the size of that place, though due to the urgency of the mission Navidson only had time for a few shots.One of the things The Kellog-Antwerk Claim, The Bister-Frieden- Josephson Criteria, and The Haven-Slocum Theory never consider is Navidson's aesthetic dissatisfaction. Granted all three schools of thought would say Navidson's eye for perfection was directly influenced by his internal struggles, whether possession, self-obliteration, or the social good implicit in any deeply pursued venture. But as Deacon Lookner smugly commented: "We mustn't forget the most obvious  reason  Navidson  went back to the house: he wanted to get a better picture."4 10While the narrative events up till now have proved an easy enoughthread to follow, they have also usurped the focus of  the  film.  Until Exploration #5 there  was  never  a true  visual  meditation  on  the  house itself, its terrifying proportions and the palpable darkness inhabiting it. The few fragments of usable 16mm and  video  tape  incensed  Navidson.  In  his opinion, very few of the images-even those he was personally responsible for-retained any of those fantastic dimensions intrinsic to that place. All of which begins to explain why in February  and  March  Navidson  began  to order high speed film,  magnesium  flares,  powerful  flashes,  and  even arranged to rent a thermal video camera. He intentionally kept Reston in the dark, assuming his friend would try to stop him or endanger himself by insisting on going along.409-fhe Reston Interview.410 o eacon Lookner's Artistic Peril (Jackson, Mississippi: Group Home Publications, 1994), p. 14.418 Throughout his career, Navidson had almost without exception worked alone. He was used to entering areas of conflict by himself. He preferred the dictates of survival when, faced with enthralling danger, he was forced to rely on nothing else but his own keenly tuned instincts. Under those conditions, he consistently produced his best work.Photojournalism has frequently been lambasted for being the product of circumstance. In fact rarely are any of these images considered in terms of their composition and semantic intent. They are merely news,  ahappy intersection of event and opportunity. It hardly helps that photographs in general also take only a fraction of a second to acquire.It is incredible how so many people can constantly misread speed to mean ease. This is certainly most common where photography is concerned. However simply because anyone can buy a camera, shutter away, and then with a slightly prejudiced eye justify the product does not validate the achievement. Shooting a target with a rifle is accomplished with similar speed and yet because the results are so objective no one suggests that marksmanship is easy.In photojournalism the celerity with which a moment of history is seized testifies to the extraordinary skill required.  Even with the  help ofcomputerized  settings  and   high-speed  films,  an   enormous  amount oftechnical information must still be accounted for in very little time in order to take a successful shot.players A photojournalist is very much  like an  athlete.  Similar to hockeythey have learned and practiced over and  over again or bodyboarders,very specific movements. But great photographers  must  not onlycrucial to  handling a camera, they commit to reflex those physical demandsmust also refine and internalize aesthetic sensibilities. There is no time to think through what is  valuable to a frame and  what is  not.  Their actionsmust be entirely instinctual, immediate, and the result of years and years of study, hard work and of course talent.As New York City gallery owner Timothy K. Thuan once said: Will Navidson is one of this century's finest photographers, but because his work defines him as a "photojournalist" he suffers to this day that most lamentable of critical denuncia- tions: "Hey, he just shoots what happens. Anyone can do that, if they're there." And so it goes. Buy that guy a beer and sock him in the eye.4 11Only very recently has the detection of a formidable understanding and useof frame balance inherent in all of Navidson's work begun to breach the bias against his profession. time the image that won him the Pulitzer Prize. Not the Consider for the lasteven taking into account the courage necessary to travel to Sudan, walkand finally discover this child on some violent, disease-infested streets,rocky patch of earth-all of which some consider a major part of photography and even art4 12 - Navidson also had to contend with the411 Personal interview with Timothy K. Thuan, August 29, 1996.412See Cassandra Rissman LaRue's The Architecture of Art (Boston: ShambhaJa Publications, 1971),p. 139 where she defines her frequently touted "seven stages to accomplishment":419 infinite number of ways he could photograph her (angles, filters, exposure, focus, framing, lighting etc., etc.) He could have used up a dozen rolls exploring these possibilities, but he did not. He shot her once and in only one way.In the photograph, the vulture sits behind Delial, frame left, slightly out of focus, primary feathers beginning to feel the air as it prepares for flight. Near the centre, in crisp focus, squats Delial, bone dangling in her tawny almost inhuman fingers, her lips a crawl of insects, her eyes swollen with sand. Illness and hunger are on her but Death is still a few paces behind, perched on a rocky mound, talons fully extended, black eyes focused on Famine's daughter.Had Delial been framed far right with the vulture far left, the photog- rapher as well as the viewer would feel as if they were sitting on a sofa chair. Or as associate UCLA professor Rudy Snyder speculated: "We would be turned into an impartial audience plunked down in front of history's glass covered proscenium."4 13 Instead Navidson kept the vulture to the left and Delial toward the middle, thus purposefully leaving the entire right portion of the frame empty.When Rouhollah W. Leffler reacquainted himself with Navidson's picture in a recent retrospective, he wistfully commented:It seems people should complain more about this empty space but to my knowl-There are seven incarnations (and six correlates) necessary to becoming an Artist:I.	Explorer (Courage) 2. Surveyor (Vision) 3.  Miner (Strength) 4. Refiner (Patience) 5. Designer (Intelligence) 6.  Maker  (Experience)  7.   Artist.  ,  First, you must leave the safety of your home and go into the dangers of the world, whether to an actual territory or some unexamined aspect of the psyche.  This  is what is meant by  'Explorer.'  ,  Next,  you  must  have  the  vision  to  recognize your destination once you arrive there. Note that  a  destination  may  sometimes also be  the journey.  This  is  what  is  meant  by  'Surveyor.'   '.V   Third, you  must be strong enough to dig up facts, follow veins of history, unearth telling details. This is what is meant by 'Miner.' ,  Fourth,  you  must  have  the  patience  to winnow and process your material into something rare. This may take months or even years. And this is what is meant by 'Refiner.' , Fifth, you must use  your intellect to conceive of your material as  something  meaning  more  than  its origins. This is what is meant by 'Designer.' , Six, you must fashion a work independent of everything that has gone before it including yourself. This is accomplished through experience and is  what  is  meant  by  'Maker.'  '.II  At  this stage, the work is acceptable.  You will  be  fortunate  to  have progressed  so  far.  It is unlikely, however, that you will go  any  farther.  Most  do  not.  But  let  us assume you are exceptional.  Let us  assume  you  are  rare.  What  then  does  it  mean to reach the final incarnation? Only this: at every stage, from  1 thru  6,  you  will risk more, see more,  gather  more,  process   more,  fashion  more,  consider  more, love more, suffer more, imagine more and in the end  know  why  less  means more and leave what doesn't and keep what implies and  create  what  matters.  This  is what is meant by 'Artist.'It is interesting to note that despite the appeal of this description and the wide-spread popularity of The Architecture of Art, especially during the 70s and early 80s, out of all of LaRue's followers not one has produced anything of consequence let alone merit. In his article "Where have all the children gone?" in American Heritage, v.17, January 1994, p. 43, Evan Sharp snapped: "LaRue fanatics would do well to trade in their seven stages for twelve steps."413Rudy Snyder's "In Accordance With Limited Space" in Art News, v. 93, October 1994, p. 24-27.420 edge no one ever has. I think there's a very simple reason too: people under- stand, consciously or unconsciously, that it really isn't empty at all.4 14Leffler's point is simply that while Navidson does not physically appear in the frame he still occupies the right side of the photograph. The emptiness there is merely a gnomonic representation of both his presence and influence, challenging the predator for a helpless prize epitomized by the flightless wings of a dying child's shoulder blades.Perhaps this is why any observer will feel a slight adrenal rush when pondering the picture. Though they probably assume subject matter is the key to their reaction, the real cause is the way the balance of objects within the frame involves the beholder. It instantly makes a participant out of any witness.Though this is still all dark work, at least one aspect of the photo- graph's composition may have had direct political consequences: Delia! is not exactly in the centre. She is closer to Navidson, and hence to the observer, by a hair. Many experts attribute this slight imbalance to the large outpouring of national support and the creation of several relief programs which followed the publication of the photograph. As Susan Sontag sadly mused many years later: "Her proximity suggested to us that Delia! was still within our reach."4 15See diagram:(	](	][	][	][	][	](	][	][	)416414Rouhollah W. Leffler's "Art Times" in Sight and Sound, November 1996, p. 39.415 Susan Sontag's On Photography: The Revised Edition (New York: Anchor Books, 1996), p. 394.4 16Presumably Zampano's blindness prevented him from proViding an actual diagramof the Delial photograph. - Ed.421 Opposing mortality is  a  theme which  persists throughout  Navid- son' s work. As photo critic M. G. Cafiso maintained back in 1985:Navidson's all consuming interest in people-and usually people caught in ter- rible circumstances-always puts him in direct conflict with death.417As previously mentioned in Chapter XV, Navidson never photographed scenery, but he also never photographed the threat of death without interposing someone else betwee n himself and it.Returning to Ash Tree Lane meant removing the other. It meant photographing something unlike anything he had ever  encountered  before, even in previous visits to the house, a place without population, without participants, a place that would threaten no one else's existence but his own.417M. G. Cafiso's Mortality and Morality in Photography (San Francisco: Chronicle Books, 1985), p.xxiii. Interestingly enough in one of his early  footnotes,  Cafiso  broaches a  troubling  but  highly provocative aesthetic concern when he observes how even  "the finest act of seeing  is  necessarily  always  the act of llQl seeing something else." Regrettably he takes this matter no further nor applies it later on to the photographic challenges Navidson ultimately had to face.422 xxNo one should brave the underworld alone.-Poe   ........... 7 "The walls are endlessly bare. Nothing hangs on them. nothing defines them. They are without texture. Even to the keenest eye or most sentient fingertip, they remain unreadable. You will never find a mark there. No trace survives. The walls obliterate everything. They are permanently absolved of all record. Oblique, forever obscure and unwritten. Behold the per- fect pantheon of absence." - [Illegible] - Ed.423 On the first day of April, Navidson set out on the last exploration of those strange hallways and rooms. The card introduces this sequence as nothing more than Exploration #5.For recording the adventure, Navidson brought with him  a  1962 Hl6 hand crank Bolex 16mm camera along with 16mm, 25mm, 75mm Kern-Paillard lenses and a Bogen tripod. He also carried a Sony microcas- sette recorder, Panasonic Hi 8, ample batteries, at least a dozen 120 minute Metal Evaporated (DLC) tapes, as well as a 35mm Nikon, flashes, and a USA Bobby Lee camera strap. For film, he packed 3000 feet of 7298 16mm Kodak in one hundred foot loads, 20 rolJs of 35mm, including some 36 frame Konica 3200 speed, plus 10 rolls of assorted black and white film. Unfortunately the thermal video camera he had arranged to rent fell through in the last minute.For survival gear, Navidson took with him a rated sleeping bag, a one man tent, rations for two weeks, 2 five-gallon containers of water, chemical heat packs, flares, high intensity as well as regular intensity lightsticks, plenty of neon markers, fishing line, three flashlights, one small pumper light, extra batteries, a carbide lamp, matches, toothbrush, stove, change of clothes, an extra sweater, extra socks, toilet paper, a  small medical kit, and one book. All of which he carefuJly loaded into a two wheel trailer which he secured to an aluminum-frame mountain bike.For light, he mounted a lamp on the bike's handlebars powered by a rechargeable battery connected to a small optional rear-wheel generator. He also installed an odometer.As we can see, when Navidson first starts down the hall- way he  does not head for the Spiral Staircase. This  time  he chooses to explore the corridors.Due to the weight of the trailer, he moves very slowly, but as we hear him note on his microcassette recorder: "I'm in no hurry."Frequently, he stops to take stills and shoot alittle film.After two hours he has only managed to go seven miles. He stops for a sip of water, puts up a neon marker, and then after checking his watch begins ped- aling again. Little does he understand the significance of his ofThand remark: "It seems to be getting easier."Soon, however, he realizes there is a definite decrease in resistance. After an hour, he no longer needs to pedal: "This hallway seems to be on adecline. In fact all I do now is brake." When he finally stops for the night, the odometerreads an incredible 163 miles.As he sets up camp in a small room, Navidson already knows his trip is over: "After going downhill for eight hours at nearly 20 mph, it will probably take me six to seven days, maybe more, to get back to where Istarted from."When Navidson wakes up the next morning, he eats a quick breakfast, points the bike home, and begins what he expects will be an appalling, perhaps impossible, effort.However within a few minutes, he finds he no longer needs to pedal.Once again he is heading downhill.424 Assuming he has become disoriented,he turns around and begins pedaling in the opposite direction,which should be uphill. But within fifteen seconds, he is againcoasting down a slope.Confused, he pulls into a large room and tries to gather his thoughts: "It's as if I'm moving along a surface that always tilts downward no matter which direction I face."Resigned to his fate, Navidson climbs back on the bike and soon enough finds himself clipping along at almostthirty miles an hour.For the next five days		Navidson covers anywhere from 240 to 300 miles at a time, though			on	the fifth day, in what amounts to an absurd			fourteen hour	marathon, Navidson logs 428 miles.425 Nor does this endless corridor he travels remain the same size.426 Sometimes the ceiling drops in on him,427 gettingprogressivelylowerandloweruntil it begins to graze his head, only to shift a few minutes later,428 untilhigherandhigherrising429 it  disappears altogether.430 Sometimes	the hallwaywidens,	until  at onepoint	Navidsonswears he	is movingdown	someenormous	plateau:"An infinitely large billiard table or the smooth face of some incredible mountain," he tells us hours later while preparing  a  modest  meal.  "One time I stopped and set out to the right on what I  thought  would  be  a traverse. Within seconds I was heading downhill again."431 And then the wa lls rea ppear, a long with the ceil- ing a nd numerous doorwa ys; the shifts always a ccompanied by tha t inimita ble, a nd by now very familia r, growl.As the da ys pa ss, Na vidson becomes more a nd more a wa re tha t he is running preca riously low on water a nd food. Even worse, the sense of inevita ble doom this causes him is compounded by the sense of immedia te doom he feels whenever he begins riding his bike: "I ca n't help thinking I'm going to rea ch a n edge to this thing. I'll be going too fast to stop a nd just fly off into da rkness."Which is a lmost wha t happens. te n .t is very difficult to tell On th e twelft	or th ir  : av1 r o estimates must h ave been wh ich), a fter sleeping for hsets off down the ha llway. wellSoon the wa lls and	doorwa ys recede a ndV   a	n	s   h, thentheceiling completely out sightof   lifts too iscompletely out it	lS	of too until sight 432 "direction no  longer matters."Navidson stops and lights four magnesium flares which he throws as far as he  can  to theright	and	left.Then he bikes down a hundred yards and lights four more flares.After the third time, he turns around andrelying on a timed  exposurephotographsthe twelve flares.The first image captures twelve holes of light.In the second image, however, the flares seem much farther away.By the third image, they appear only as streaks, indicating that eitherNavidson orthe flares arem 0VIn g recorder fixed However,Navidson's comments on the microcassette indicate his cameraon the433 was firmlytripod. Having little choice, Navidson continues on. The hours sweep by. He tries to drink as little water as many thousands of miles he has traveled. He just continues to ride, lost in a trance born out of motion describing the ash floor in front of him before it is already behind him, until all of a sudden, although "As if all along, during the last week, I had sensed something out there" Navidson stutters into the .	. ."'Navidson is not the only one to have mtu1t1vely the tragic May assault on Ev rest werearound ten o cIock' I walked over this little rise, and ll felt hke the 7,000 foot Kangshung face: "Finally, probably in Outside, v. xxi, n. 9, September 1996, p. 64. 434  \     0 ( " i  '<:f"Navidson tries to stop, hammering down on the brakes, rubber pads failing to hold the wheels, shrieking, even though he is still seconds before the pale light thrown by the bike lamp will finally catch sight of the end. "At that point Ijust yanked my bike to the ground," he says, pointing the video camera at his left thigh. "My leg's pretty torn up. Still bleeding a little. The trailer's completely wrecked. I think that's what finally stopped me. I slid right to the edge. My legs were hanging over. And I could feel it too.  I don't know how. There was no wind, no sound, no change of temperature. There was just this terrible emptiness reaching up for me." Flush with the brink stands a structure reminiscent of a bartizan. It is no more than seven feet high and has only one door. Inside Navidson discovers a winding stair- case, which instead of lead- ing up somewhere, or downsomewhere,		lies on its		side,	penetrating through the	wall facing	 the	abyss.	Still	badly	shaken,	Navidson does	notinvestigate. Instead, he decides to spend the night, or whatever time of day it is-for some reason the time stamp on the Hi 8 is no longer functioning-within the confines of that unanticipated shelter.LL437 The first thing Navidson notices when he wakes up is that the only door out of there has vanished. Furthermore the stairs which were horizontal before he had gone to sleep are now directly above him, rising through the ceiling, suggesting that this tiny house within a house has rotated onto its side. After changing the bandages on his leg and devouring a small snack, Navidson transfers the sleeping bag, tent, Bolex,  the  Nikon, the Hi 8, the film, all the video tapes, the  microcassette recorder,    two   containers   of   water,   three   flares,  chemicalw	heaters,  and  the  remaining PowerBars into his  pack, which hethen tosses up through the hole ..... .UOSdilpOJ l! :mqM ilUffi;r.> dl{l ll!" ..... d){!J 'swal! Ja41O áddlS e uoSa!ldlll q 'Sl !JqSBlJ s.,.fawnof S l pue-P!ABN  ')fOOq  i\JUO S  OlU!  SlJnlS UOSAJSnopne:) "Sld)J'.>Od OlUOsqUf!p 0dl{l aq dl{l JO SJeqa1pue4 a41 JO pJOl{ sqe	'a)f !q pue l!BlS lSJy a41dn JldSU!!ll s11nd i\JUO dl{l 4ilnoiq1 1eq1 JO 1no l!XapadweJ'.> WOOJ w\ 0 No sooner does he start up this new staircase than the floor below him vanishes along with the bike, trailer, and everything else he left behind, including additional water, food, flares, and lenses. Navidson sprints upwards, trying to distance himself as quickly as possible from that gap- ing pit. Unfortunately the winding stairs offer no landings  or  exits. After who knows how many hours, he reaches the last step, finding him- self in a small circular chamber without doorways or passages. Just a series of black rungs jutting out of the wall, leading up into an even nar- rower vertical shaft. admits he will bar, Navidsonhigh-caloric energy have a bite of somegulp of water or stops to take a Navidson hand over hand,Slowly but surely, with only brief of climbing,hours and hours after presumablythe ladder. But pulls himself up   	 	  small	room	withone	door	whichhe	cautiously	opens.442 On the other side, we  find a narrow cor ridor sliding into   darkness. "These w alls are actua lly a relief," Navidson co443 mments after he has been walking for a while. "I	ne ver thought t his labyrinth would be ap leasant thin444 g to return to." Excep t the  futhe r he goes, t he smallert he hallway445 gets, unti l he hast oremove his pack and crou446 ch. So on he i son all fours p447 ushing his pac kin fro ntofhi448 m. Another hundredyar ds and heh449 as to crawl on hi     s belly. As we c450 an see, the pain f rom his already i451 njuted leg is excni c1atmg. At one poi452 nt, he is unable t o move another 1453 nch. The iump cut suggests ne may h454 ay Jested  or slept. When  he begins455 dr gging himself forw ard agam, the pain has456 still not diminished. E ventualJy though, he e457 merges inside a v ery rarge room w458 here everything about the house suddenly459 changes.460