461 "I'm afraid it'll vanish if I move closer. It's almost worth spending an hour just basking in the sight. I must be nuts to enjoy this so much."But when  Navidson finally does move forward,  nothing changes.[	][	][	][	][	][	][	][	][	][	][	][	][	][	]463 464 465    ,."lEl{M MOU)( l,Uop I JO 8U!H'EJ JO 8up'Eoy UI.J á:mo8 S! 'S'EM l! J;:}J\;:}l'EljM 'q'E{S :nu '8U!ljlAU'8 UO 8U!ll!S J;:>8UO! OU W,J,,:(J;:>lBI  ljOOUJ  MOlj  SMOU)(  oqM) u;:,qJ.,."llnlj l;:);:)J  AW  'P!OO OS W.J áp'E;:,p S! ljSEY;:)ljl  lnq WJY ;:)AEq   I  [;:,snBd  8uoi:] "J;:)l'EM  ;:)JOW ON ápoOJ ;:)JOW ON,, 'J;:)PJO:);:)J;:,n;:,ssBJOJJ!fil ;:,ql Oll.f! A(MO(S SABS uosp!ABN "'U;:,I 8U!ljlOU ;:>ABlj J,,Perhaps it is worthwhile to mention here the response to what serves essentially as the climax to Navid- son's documentary. After all, the film does not provide an even  remotely coherent synthesis of Navidson's fall. There is a still photograph of the window,  a few  hundred  feet of flares dropping,  hovering,  shooting up into the void, and several pictures of Navidson reading/ burning the book. The rest is a jumble of audio clips recording Navidson's impressions as he begins to die from exposure. All of which comes down to one incredible fact: nearly six minutes of screen time is black.In Rolling Stone (November 14, 1996, p. 124) columnist James Parshall remarked:Horrific, true, but also amusing. Even to this day,  I can't  help smil- ing when I think about the audience squirming in their seats, squint- ing at that implacable screen, now and then glancing over at those luminous red exit signs in order to give their eyes a rest, while some- where behind them a projector continues to spew out darkness.Michael Medved was appalled. la his mind, six minutes  of nothing spelled the end of cinema.  He  was so shocked, indignant, even incoherent, he failed to consider that The Navidson Record might have absolutely nothing to do with cinema. Stuart Deweltrop in  Blind Spot (v.42, spring,  1995,  p.  38) described it as "a wonderful fiasco-n'est-ce pas?" Kenneth Turan called it "a stunt." Janet Maslin, however, had a completely different reaction: "At last a picture with cojones!"Nor did Navidson's ending escape the gang in the monkey house Jay Leno quipped, "You know how they made The Navidson Record? Left the lens cap on. This really a home movie." While Letterman scowled: "Think about it folks: no stars, no crew, no locations. Very inexpensive.  A lot of studios are tak-  ing this idea very seriously ... Seriously." Whereupon the lights on the stage were turned off for several seconds. On Home Improvement, Tim Allen offered a one minute parody in the dark, mostly having to do with stubbed toes, broken dishware, and misdirected gropes.Meanwhile, a number of serious film aficionados began commenting on the  quality of the  audio.  It  is no great secret now that Tom Holman, California THX sound wizard, helped  clean  up  the tapes and  mon- itor all the transfers. Numerous articles appeared in Audio, Film, and FIX. Purportedly Vittorio Storaro even said: "With sound that bright who needs light?" It is bard to disagree. Even if some of Navidson's  words are impossible to understand, there is still a haunting proximity when he speaks, as  if be  were  no longer buried in black, his words tapering without echo, his dying almost too close to bear.\ 0 "<1"Now, except for when Navidson speaks, silence predominates.Ol'l7Not even the growl dares disturb h.is place. "I have no sense of anything other than myself," he mumbles..i:,.-.J N"I know I'm falling and will soon slam into the bottom. I feel it, rushing up at me." But he can only live with this fear for so long before he recognizes: "I won't even know when I finally do hit. I'll be dead before I can realize anything's happened. So there is no bottom. It does not exist for me. Only my end exists." And then in a whisper: "Maybe that is the something here. The only thing here. My end."Mr---.::t"Navidson records his sobs and groans. He even captures moments of faint amusement when he jokingly announces: "It's not fair in a way. I've been falling down so long it feels like floating up to me-" Soon though he grows less concerned about where he is and becomes more consumed by who he once was. Unlike Floyd Collins, Navidson does not rave about angels in chariots or chicken sandwiches. Nor does he offer us his C.V. like Holloway. Instead, as urea pours into his veins and delirium sets in, Navidson begins rambling on about people he  has known and loved: Tom-"Tom ... Tom, is this where you went? Don't look down, eh?"-Delial, his children and more and more frequently Karen-"l've you. I've lost you.".i,.-.J J:,. 475 476"Daisy. Daisy.  Daisy.  Daisy, Daisy, give me your answer do.  I'm half crazy over the love of you. That's not right."	t - -.:t' 479,.-P Jl?:)S    q  l,UOQ,,480 "";)q l,UOQ,,482 00wFinally Navidson's words, tunes, and shivering murmurs trail off into a painful rasp. He knows his voice will never heat this world. Perhaps no voice will. Memories cease to surface. Sorrow threatens to no longer matter.Navidson is forgetting. Navidson is dying. Very soon hewill vanishcompletely in the wings	¥of his ownwordless stanza484 [	][	][	][	][	][	][	][	][	][	][	][	][	][	][	]485Exceptthis stanzadoes not remain	¥entirely empty[	][	][	][	][	][	][	][	][	][	][	][	][	][	][	]"Light," Navidson croaks. "Can't. Be. I see light.1 Care-" 1Ignis  fatuus? (MFoolish Fire. Will of the wisp  [1608)." -   Ed.) I{Sure enough the final frames of Navidson's film capture in the upper right- hand comer a tiny fleck of blue crying light into the void.  Enough  to  see but not enough to see by.The film runs out. Black.A different kind of black.Followed by the name of the processing lab.¥489 XXIWe felt the lonely beauty of the evening, the immense roaring silence of the wind, the tenuousness of our tie to all below. There was a hint o ffear, not for our lives, but of a vast unknown which pressed in upon us. A fleeting feeling of disappointment-that after all those dreams and questions this was only  a mountain  top-gave  way to the suspicion that maybe there was something more, something bey ond the three-dimensional form of the moment. If only it could be perceived.- Thomas F. HornbeinEverest-The West Ridge491 492493 494 495 496497 498 499500 501 502 503 504 505 506 4 18	418---------------------------- 507 508 ,tYlQ 509 510 511512 513514 515 516517 518 519 520 521 XXIITruth  transcends the telling.-   Inonothing more now than the mere dark. The tape is blank.Finally when Karen does tum around to rnscover the real emptiness waiting behind her, she  does  not  scream.  Instead  her  chest  heaves,  powerless for a moment to take anything in or expel anything out. Oddly enough as she starts to retreat from  the  children's bedroom,  it  almost  looks as if something catches her attention. A few minutes later, she returns with a halogen flashlight and steps toward the edge.Hanan Jabara suggests Karen heard something, though there is nothing even remotely like a sound on the Hi  8.4 19  Carlos  Ellsberg  agrees with Jabara: "Karen stops because of something she hears."  Only  he qualifies this statement by adding, "the  sound  is  obviously  imagined. Another example of how the mind, any mind, consistently seeks to impose itself upon the abyss."420As everyone knows, Karen stands there on the brink for several minutes, pointing her flashlight into the darkness and calling out for Navidson.421 When she finally does step  inside,  she  takes  no  deep  breath and makes no announcement. She just steps forward and disappears  behind the black curtain. A second later  that  cold  hollow  disappears  too,  replaced by the wall, exactly as it was before, except for one thing: all the children's drawings are gone.Karen's action inspired Paul Auster to conjure up a short internal monologue tracing the directions of her thoughts.422 Donna Tartt  also wrote  an inventive portrayal  of  Karen's  dilemma.  Except  in Tartt's version, instead of stepping into darkness, Karen returns to New York and marries a wealthy magazine  publisher.423  Purportedly  there  even exists an opera based on The Navidson Record, written from Karen's  perspective,  with  this last step into the void serving as the subject for the final aria.Whatever  ultimately  allows  Karen  to   overcome   her  fears,   there islittle doubt her love for Navidson is the primary catalyst. Her desire to embrace him as she has never done before defeats the memories of that dark well, the molestations carried out by a stepfather or whatever shadows her childhood truly conceals.  In  this  moment,  she  displays  the  restorative power41 9Hanan Jabara's "Hearing Things." Acoustic Lens, v. xxxii, n. 8, 1994. p. 78-84.420c arlos Ellsberg's "The Solipsistic Seance." Ouija, v. ix, n. 4, December, 1996. p. 45.421Toough it may be obvious, recent studies carried out by Merlecker and Finch finally confinned the "high probability" that the  "star" Navidsoo caught on film was none  other than Karen's halogen. See BobMerlecker and Bob Finch's "Starlight, Starbright, First Flashlight I See Tonight." Byte, v. 20, August, 1995. p. 34.422Paul Auster's "Ribbons." Glas Ohms, v. xiii, n. 83, August 11, 1993, p. 2.423Donna Tartt's "Please, Please, Please Me." Spin, December 1996, p. 137.522of what Erich Fromm terms the development of "symbiotic relationships" through personal courage.Critic Guyon Keller argues that the role of  vision  is  integral  to Karen's success:I believe Karen could never have crossed that line had she not first made those two remark- able cinematic moments: What Some Have Thought and A Brief History  Of  Who  I love.  By  relearning  to  see  Navidson,  she saw what he wasn't  and  consequently  began to see herself much more clearly.424Esteemed Italian translator Sophia Blynn takes Keller's comments a little further:The most important light Karen  carried  into that place was the memory of Navidson. And Navidson was no different. Though it's commonly assumed his last word was "care" or the start of "careful." I would argue differ- ently. I believe this utterance is really just the first syllable of the very name on which  his mind and heart had finally come  to rest.  His only hope, his only meaning: "Karen. "425Regardless of what finally enabled her to walk across that threshold, forty-nine minutes later a neighbor saw Karen crying  on   the  front  lawn,  a pink ribbon in her hair, Navidson cradled in her lap.An ambulance soon arrived. Reston caught up with them at the hospital. Navidson's core temperature had dropped to a frighteningly low83.7 degrees Fahrenheit. Lacking a cardiopulmonary bypass machine which could have pumped out Navidson's cold blood and replaced it with warm oxygenated blood, doctors instead had to  cut  into  Navidson's  abdominal cavity,  insert  catheters,  and  proceed  to irrigate  his  internal   organs   with warm fluid. Though his core temperature rose to 85.3 degrees, the EKG continued to produce the peculiar J  wave  indicative  of  hypothermia.  Still more liters of saline were added to the  IV.  Doctors  kept  close  watch.  One hour passed. Most there believed he would not live through another.He did.Karen stayed at his side that night and through the nights  and  days which followed, reading to him, singing to him, and when she was tired sleeping on the floor by his bed.As hours slipped into weeks,  Navidson began  to  recover,  but  the price he paid for living was not cheap. Frostbite claimed his right hand and clipped the top portion of one ear. Patches of skin on his face were  also removed as well as his left  eye.  Furthermore  his  hip  had  inexplicably shattered and had to be  replaced.  Doctors  said  he  would  need  a  crutch  for the rest of his life.He did.424G uyon Keller's "The Importance of Seeing Clearly" in Cineaste, v. xxii, n. 1, p. 36-37.425Sophia Blynn's "Carry On Light" in Washingtonian, v. 31, December 1995, p. 72.523 Still he survived. Furthermore, the film and tapes he made during his journey also survived.As to what happened after Karen disappeared from view, the only existing account comes from a short interview conducted by a college journalist from William & Mary:Karen: As soon as I walked in there, I started shiv- ering. It was so cold and dark. I turned around to see where I was but where I'd come from was gone. I started hyperventi- lating. I couldn't breathe. I was going to die. But somehow I managed to keep moving. I kept putting one foot in front of the other until I found him.Q:	You knew he was there?Karen: No, but that's what I was thinking. And then he was there, right at my feet, no clothes on and all curled up. His hand was white as ice. [She holds back the tears.] When I saw him like that it didn't matter anymore where I was. I'd never felt that, well, free before.[Long pause]Q:	What happened then?Karen: I held him. He was alive. He made a sound when I cradled his head in my arms. I couldn't understand what he was saying at first but then I realized the flashlight was hurting his eyes. So I turned it off and held him in the darkness.[Another long pause]Q:	How did you get him out of the house? Karen:	It just dissolved.Q:	Dissolved? What do you mean?Karen: Like a bad dream. We were in pitch black- ness and then I saw, no ... actually my eyes were closed. I felt this warm, sweet air on my face, and then I opened my eyes and I could see trees and grass. I thought to myself, "We've died. We've died and this is where you go after you die." But it turned out to be just our front yard.Q:	You 're saying the house dissolved?524 Karen:	[No response]Q:	How's that possible? It's still there, isn't it?END OF INTERVJEW426426Missing. - Ed.525 XXIII"Surviving House, Kalapana, Hawaii, 1993"- Diane CookIn Passion For Pity and Other Recipes For Disaster (London: Greenhill Books, 1996) Helmut Muir cried: "They both live. They even get married. It's a happy ending."Which is true. Both Karen and  Will  Navidson  survive  their  ordeal and they do exchange conjugal vows in Vermont. Of course,  is  it  really possible to look at Navidson's ravaged face, the  patch covering  his  left  eye, the absence of a hand, the crutch wedged under his armpit, and call it a "happy" ending? Even putting aside  the  physical  cost,  what  about  the unseen emotional trauma which Muir so casually dismisses?The Navidsons may have left the house, they may have even left Virginia, but they will never be able to leave the memory of that place."It is late October," Navidson tells us in the closing sequence to The Navidson Record. Almost a year and a half has passed  since  he  emerged from the house. He is still recovering but  making progress,  pouring his  life into finishing this project. "At least one good thing to come out  of all  this," he says with a smile. "The skin condition  plaguing  my  feet  for  all  these years has completely vanished."The children seem to approve of Vermont. Daisy adamantly believes faeries inhabit the countryside and spirits possess her collection of stuffed animals and dolls, in particular a red and gold one.  Chad  on  the  other hand has become  obsessed  with  Lego,  spending  countless  hours with pounds and pounds of their arrangement. When questioned about this newfound interest, he only says that someday he wants to become an architect.Karen struggles every day to  keep  up  with  everyone's  energies. Only recently she was diagnosed with malignant breast cancer. The mastectomy was considered "successful" and subsequent chemotherapy526 declared "very effective." Nevertheless hair loss and severe stomach ulceration have left Karen gaunt and grey. She has lost too much weight and constantly needs to sit down to catch her breath. Still, as Navidson tenderly shows us, her will-o'-the-wisp smiles seem impervious to the ravaging effects of disease and whenever she laughs the notes sing a call to Victory.Navidson captures all this simple, warmly lit shots: simmeringmilk, roasted walnuts and against a backdrop of black ash and pine, Karen's graceful fingers braiding her daughter's long auburn hair. Despite Karen's infrequently removed woolen hat, she and Daisy still both share a remarkable radiance. What Massei Laughton once described as "a kind of beautiful mischief."427Nor is this the only shot of mother and child. Hundreds of photo- graphs hang on the walls of their home. Every room, stairway, and corridor supports pictures of Karen, Daisy, Chad, and Navidson as well as Tom, Reston, Karen's mother, their friends, distant relatives, ancient relatives, even Mallory and Hillary.Though this collage is immensely appealing, Navidson is wise enough to know he cannot close on such images. They may be heart warming but what they imply rings false. As Navidson says himself: "I kept looking for assurances, for that gentle ending, but I never found it Maybe because I know that place is still there. And it always will be there."Navidson has never stopped wrestling with the meaning of his experience. And even though it has literally crippled him, he somehow manages to remain passionate about his work. Mercifully, in her captivating book on art, culture, and politics, in which she includes The Navidson Record in the spire of her analysis, Daphne Kaplan reminds the reader what it means to be passionate:Passion has little to do with euphoria and eve- rything to do with patience. It is not about feeling good. It is about endurance. Like pa- tience, passion comes from the same Latin root: pati. It does not mean to flow with exu- berance. It means to suffer. ANavidson suffers the responsibilities of his art and consequently must tum from the blind comfort found in those neatly framed photographs filling his home to follow his costume clad children out into the New England streets, their hearts set on sacks of candy, their paths hidden beneath cold coloured leaves.In those final shots, Navidson gives a wink to the genre his work will always resist but invariably join. Halloween. Jack O'lantems. Vampires, witches, and politicians. A whole slew of eight year old ghouls haunting the streets of Dorset, plundering its homes for apples and MilkyWays, all while tossing up high-pitched screams into the sparkling blackness forever closing above them.Tongues of grey ice cover the roads, candles flicker unevenly, andgrownups gulp hot cider from styrofoam cups, always keeping watch over their sheep in wolves' clothing lest something disturb their pantomime. Each  squeal  and  cry arrests  a  sip  of warmth  as  parents everywhere427Massel Laughton's "Comb and Brush" in Z, v. x.iii, n. 4, 1994, p. 501.A Daphne Kaplan's The Courage to Withstand (Hopewell, NJ: Ecco Press, 1996), p. iii.527immediately seek out these tiny forms wending their way from porch to porch across great lakes of shadow.Navidson does not close with the caramel covered face of a Casper the friendly ghost. He ends instead on what he knows is true and always will be true. Letting the parade pass from sight, he focuses on the empty road beyond, a pale curve vanishing into the woods where nothing moves and a street lamp flickers on and off until at last it flickers out and darkness sweeps in like a hand.- December 25, 1996528