66Mr. Truant declined to comment further on this particular passage. - Ed.54 As tape and film reveal, in the month following  the  expansion  of  the walls bracketing the book shelves, Billy Reston made several trips to the house where despite all  efforts  to  the  contrary,  he  continued  to  confirm  the confounding impossibility of an interior dimension greater than an exterior one.Navidson skillfully captures Reston's mental frustration by focusing on the physical impediments  his  friend  must  face  within  a  house  not designed with the  disabled  in  mind.  Since  the  area  in  question is  in  the master bedroom, Reston must make his way upstairs each time he wishes to inspect the area.On the first visit, Tom volunteers to try and carry him."That won't be necessary" Reston grunts, effortlessly swinging out of his chair and dragging himself  up  to  the  second  story  using  only  his arms."You got a pair of guns there, don't you partner." The engineer is only slightly winded."Too bad you forgot your chair," Tom adds dryly.Reston looks up in disbelief, a little surprised, maybe even a bit shocked, and then bursts out laughing."Well, and fuck you."In the end, Navidson is the one who hauls up the wheelchair.67Still, no matter how many times Reston wheels from the children's bedroom to the master bedroom or how carefully he  examines  the  strange closet space, the bookshelves, or the various tools Tom and Will have been measuring the house with,  he  can  provide  no  reasonable  explanation  for what he keeps referring to as "a goddamn spatial rape."55 By June-as the date on the Hi 8 tape indicates-the problem still remains unsolved. Tom, however, realizes be cannot afford  to   stay  any  longer and asks Reston to give him  a lift to Charlottesville where he can catch a ride up to Dulles.It is a bright summer morning when we watch Tom emerge from the house. He gives Karen a quick kiss good-bye and  then  kneels  down to present Chad and Daisy with a set of neon yellow dart guns."Remember kids," he tells them sternly. "Don't shoot each other.Aim at the fragile, expensive stuff."Navidson gives his brother a lasting hug. 'TH miss you, man.""You got a phone," Tom grins."It even rings," Navidson adds without missing a beat.While there is no question the tone of this exchange is jocular and perhaps even slightly combative, what matters most here is  unspoken.  The way Tom's cheeks burn with a sudden flush of color. Or the way Navidson quickly tries to wipe something from his eyes. Certainly the  long,  lingering shot of Tom as he tosses his duffel bag in the back of Reston's van,  waving  the camera good-bye, revea ls to us just  how  much  affection  Navidson feels for his brother.Strangely enough, following Tom's departure, communication between Navidson and Karen begins to radically deteriorate.An unusual quiet descends on the house.Karen refuses to speak about the anomaly. She brews  coffee,  calls her mother in New York. brews more coffee,  and  keeps  track  of the real estate market in the classifieds.Frustrated by her unwillingness to discuss the implications of their strange living  quarters,  Navidson  retreats  to  the  downstairs   study, reviewing photographs, tapes, even-as a few stills reveal-compiling a list of possible experts, government agencies, newspapers, periodicals, and television shows they might want to approach.At least both he and Karen agree on  one thing:  they  want  the  chil- dren to stay out of the house.  Unfortunately,  since  neither  Chad  nor  Daisy has had a real opportunity to make any new friends in Virginia, they keep to themselves, romping around the  backyard, shouting, screaming, stinging each other with darts until eventually they  drift  farther  and  farther  out  into the neighborhood for increasingly longer spates of time.Neither Karen nor Navidson seems to notice.The alienation of their children finally becomes apparent to both of them one evening in the middle of July.Karen is upstairs, sitting on the bed playing with a  deck  of  Tarot cards. Navidson is  downstairs  in  his  study examining several slides returned from the lab. News of Oliver North's annulled conviction  plays  on the TV. In the background, we can hear Chad and Daisy squealing about something, their voices  peeling  through  the house, the strained music of their play threatening at any instant to turn into a brawl.With superb cross-cutting, Navidson  depicts how both he and Karen react to the next moment.  Karen has  drawn another  card  from  the deck but instead of adding it to the cross slowly forming before her crossed legs, the occult image hangs unseen in the air, frozen between her two fingers, Karen's eyes already diverted, concentrating on a sound, a  new sound, almost out of reach, but reaching her just the same. Navidson is56 much closer. His children's cries immediately tel1 him that they  are  way  out of bounds.Karen has only just started to head downstairs, calling out for Chad and Daisy, her agitation and panic increasing with every  step,  when Navidson bolts out of the study and races for the living room.The terrifying implication of their children's shouts is now impossi- ble to miss.  No  roo  m in the  house exceeds  a length of  twenty-five  feet.  let alone fifty feet, let alone fifty-six and a half feet. and yet Chad and Daisy's voices are echoing, each call responding with an entirely separate answer.In the living room, Navidson discovers the echoes emanating from a dark doorless  hallway  which  has appeared out of nowhere in the west walJ. 68 Without hesitating, Navidson plunges in  after  them.  Unfortunately the living room Hi 8 cannot follow him nor for that matter can Karen. She freezes on the threshold, unable to push herself into the darkness toward the faint flicker of light within. Fortunately, she does not have to wait too long. Navidson soon reappears with Chad  and  Daisy  in each  arm,  both  of  them still clutching a homemade candle, their faces  lit  like  sprites  on  a winter's eve.This is the first sign of Karen's chronic disability. Up until now there has never been even the slightest indication that she  suffers  from crippling claustrophobia. By  the  time  Navidson  and  the  two  children  are safe and sound in the living  room,  Karen  is  drenched  in  sweat.  She  hugs  and holds them as if they had just narrowly avoided some terrible fate, even though neither Chad nor Daisy seems particularly disturbed by their little adventure. In fact. they want to go back. Perhaps because of Karen's evident distress, Navidson agrees to at least temporarily make this new addition to their house off limits.For the rest of the night, Karen keeps a tight grip on Navidson.Even when they finally slip into bed, she is still holding his hand. "Navy, promise me you won't go in  there again." "Let's see if it's even here in the morning.""It will be."She lays her head down flat on his chest and begins to cry. "I love you so much. Please promise me. Please."Whether it is the lasting flush of terror still in Karen's cheeks or her absolute need for him, so markedly different from her  frequently  aloof posture, Navidson cradles her in bis arms like a child and promises.Since the release of The Navidson  Record,  Virginia  Posah  has written extensively about Karen Green's adolescent years. Posah' s thin volume entitled Wishing Well (Cambridge, Massachusetts:  Harvard University Press, 1996) represents one of the few works  which  while based on the Navidsoos' experience still manages to  stand on  its  own merits outside of the film.Along with an exceptional  background  in   everything   ranging from Kate Chopin, Sylvia Plath, Toni Morrison, Autobiography of a57 Schizophrenic Girl:The True Story of "Renee", Francesca Block's Weetzie Bat books to Mary Pipher's Reviving Ophelia and more importantly Carol Gilligan's landmark work In a Different Voice: Psychological Theory and Women's Development, Posah has spent hundreds of hours researching the early life of Karen Green, analyzing the cultural forces  shaping  her personality, ultimately uncovering a remarkable difference between the  child she once was and  the woman she eventually became.  In  her  introduction (page xv), Posah provides this brief overview:When Diderot told the teenage Sophie Volland "You all die at fifteen" he could have been speaking to Karen Green who at fifteen did die.To behold Karen as a child is nearly as ghostly an experience as the house itself. Old family films capture her athletic zeal. her unguarded smiles, the tomboy spirit which sends her racing through the muddy flats of a recently drained pond. She's awkward, a little clumsy, but rarely self-conscious, even when covered in mud.Former teachers claim she frequently  expressed a desire to be president, a nuclear physicist, a sur- geon, even a professional hockey player. All her choices reflected unattenuated self-confidence-a remarkably healthy sign for a thirteen year old girl.Along with superb class work, she excelled in extra-curricular activities. She loved planning sur- prise parties, working on school  productions,  and even on occasion taking on  a schoolyard  bully  with a bout of fists. Karen Green was exuberant, feisty, charming,  independent,  spontaneous,  sweet,  and most of all fearless.By the time she turned fifteen, all of that was gone. She hardly spoke in class. She refused to function in  any sort  of  school  event,  and  rather  than discuss her feelings  she  deferred  the  world with a hard and perfectly practiced smile.Apparently-if her sister is to be believed- Karen spent every night of her fourteenth year composing that smile in front of a blue plastic han- dled mirror. Tragically her creation proved flawless and though her near aphonia  should  have  alarmed any adept teacher or guidance counselor, it was in- variably rewarded with the pyritic prize of high school popularity.Though Posah goes on to discuss the cultural aspects and consequences of beauty, these details in particular are most  disturbing,  especially  in   light  of the fact that little of their history appears in the film.Considering the substantial coverage  present  in  The  Navidson Record, it is unsettling to discover such a glaring omission. In spite of the enormous quantity of home footage obviously available, for some reason calamities of the past still do  not  appear.  Clearly  Karen's  personal  life,  to say nothing of his own life, caused Navidson too much anxiety to portray either one particularly well in his film. Rather than delve into the pathology58 of Karen's claustrophobia, Navidson chose instead to focus strictly on the house.69Of course by the following morning, Karen has already molded her desperation into a familiar pose of indifference.She does not seem to care when they discover the hallway has not vanished. She keeps her arms folded, no longer clinging to Navidson's hand or stroking her children.69Fortunately a few years before The Navidson Record was made Karen took part in  a  study  which promised to evaluate and possibly treat her fear. After the film became something of a phenomenon, those results surfaced and were eventually published in a number of periodicals. The Anomic Mag based out of Berkeley (v. 87, n. 7, April, 1995) offered the most  comprehensive  account  of that  study  as  it  pertained  to Karen Green:.. Subject #0027-00-8785 (Karen Green) suffers severe  panjc attacks when confronting dark, enclosed spaces, usually windowless and unknown (e.g. a dark room in an unfamiliar building). The attacks are consistently characterized by (I) accelerated heart rate (2) sweating (3) trembling (4) sensation of suffocation (5) feeling of choking (6) chest pain (7) severe dizziness (8) derealization (feelings of unreality) and eventual depersonalization (being  detached from oneself) (9) culmination in an intense fear of dying. See DSM-IV "Criteria  for  Panic Attack." ... Diagnosis-subject suffers from Specific Phobia (formally known as  Simple   Phobia);   Situational   type.   See   DSM-IV  "Diagnostic   criteria for300.29 Specific Phobia." ... Because behavioral-cognitive techniques have thus far failed to modify perspectives on anxiety-provoking  stimuli, subject  was considered ideal for current pharmacotherapy study ... Initially subject received between 100-200 mg/ day of Tofranil (lmipramine) but with no improvement switched early on to a 8-adrenergic blocker (Propranolol). An increase in vivid nightmares caused her to switch again to the MAOI (Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitor) Tranylcypromine. Still dissatisfied with  the  results,  subject  switched to the SSRI (Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitor)  Fluoxetine, commonly known as Prozac. Subject responded well and soon showed increased tolerance when intentionally exposed to enclosed, dark spaces. Unfortunately  moderate weight gain and  orgasmic dysfunction caused  the  subject to  drop  out of the study... Subject apparently relies now on her own phobia avoidance mechanisms, choosing to stay clear of enclosed, unknown spaces (i.e. elevators, basements, unfamiliar closets etc., etc.), though occasionally when attacks become  "more frequent" ... she returns to Prozac for short periods of time . . . See  David   Kahn's article "Simple Phobias: The Failure of Pharmacological Intervention"; also see subject's results on Sheehan Clinician Rated Anxiety Scale as well as Sheehan Phobia Scale.70While the report seems fairly  comprehensive,  there  is  admittedly  one  point  which   remains  utterly perplexing. Other publications repeat verbatim the ambiguous phrasing  but  still  fail  to  shed light  on  the exact meaning of those six words: "occasionally when attacks become 'more frequent.' " At least  the implication seems clear, vicissitudes in Karen's life,  whatever  those  may  be,  affect her  sensitivity  to  space. In her article "Significant (OT)Her" published in The Psychology Quarterly (v. 142, n. 17, December I995,p.	453) Celine Berezin, M.D. observes that "Karen's attacks, which I suspect stem from early adolescent betrayal, increase proportionally with the level of intimacy-or even the threat of potential intimacy-she experiences whether with Will Navidson or even her children."Also see Steve Sokol and Julia Carter's Women Who Can't Love: When a Woman's Fear Mak.es Her Run from Commitment and What a Smart Man Can Do About Ir (New Hampshire: T. Devans and Company, 1978).70See Exhibit Six.59 She removes herself from her  family's  company  by  saying  very little, while at the same time maintaining a semblance of participation with a smile.Virginia Posah is right. Karen's  smile  is  tragic  because,  in  spite  of its meaning, it succeeds in remaining so utterly beautiful.The Five  and  a  Half  Minute  Hallway  in  The  Navidson Record differs slightly from the bootleg copy which  appeared  in  1990.  For one thing, in addition to the continuous circumambulating shot, a wider selection of shots has made the coverage of  the  sequence  much  more thorough and fluid. For another,  the  hallway  has  shrunk.  This  was impossible to see in the VHS copy because there  was  no  point  of comparison. Now, however, it is perfectly clear that  the  hallway  which  was well over sixty feet deep when the children entered it is now  a little less than ten feet.Context also significantly alters "The Five and a Half Minute Hallway." A greater sense of the Navidsons and their friends and  how  they all interact with the house adds the greatest amount of depth to this quietly evolving enigma. Their personalities almost crowd that place and  suddenly too, as an abrupt jump cut redelivers Tom from Massachusetts and Billy Reston from Charlottesville, the  UVA professor  once  again  wheeling around the periphery of the angle, unable to take his  eyes  off  the  strange, dark corridor.Unlike The Twilight 'Zone, however,  or  some  other  like  cousin  where understanding comes neat and fast (i.e. This is clearly  a  door  to another dimension! or This is a passage to another world-with directions!) the hallway offers no answers. The monolith in 200 I seems the most appropriate cinematic analog, incontrovertibly there but virtually inviolate to interpretation. 7 1 Similarly the hallway also  remains  meaningless,  though  it is most assuredly not without effect.  As  Navidson  threatens  to  reenter  it  for a closer inspection, Karen reiterates her previous plea and injunction with a sharp and abrupt rise in pitch.The ensuing tension is more than temporary.Navidson has always been an adventurer willing to risk his personal safety in the name of achievement Karen, on the other hand, remains the standard bearer of responsibility and is categorically against risks especially those which might endanger her family or her happiness.  Tom  also  shies from danger, preferring to tum over a problem to someone else,  ideally  a police officer, fireman, or other state paid official. Without  sound  or movement but by presence alone, the hallway creates a serious rift in the Navidson household.Bazine Naodook suggests that the hallway exudes a "conflictcreating force": "It's those oily walls radiating badness which  maneuver Karen and Will into that nonsensical  fight."72 Naodook's  argument reveals a rather tedious mind. She feels a need to invent some non-existent "dark- force" to account for all ill will instead of recognizing the dangerous influence the unknown naturally has on everyone.A couple of weeks pass. Karen privately puzzles over the experience but says very little. The only indication that the hallway has in some way intruded on her thoughts is her newfound interest in Feng Shui. In the film.71Consider Drew Bluth's "Summer's Passage" in Architectural Digest, v. 50, o. 10, October 1993, p. 30. 72Bazine Naodook's The Bad Bodhi Wall (Marina Del Rey: Bix Oikofoe Publishing House, 1995), p. 91.60 we can make out a number of books lying around the house, including The Elements of Feng Shui by Kwok Man-Ho and Joan ne O'Brien (Element Books: Shaftesbury, 1991), Feng Shui Handbook: A Practical Guide to Chinese Geomancy and Environmental Harmony by Derek Walters (Aquarian Press, 1991), Interior Design with Feng Shui by Sarah Rosbach (Rider: London, 1987) and The I Ching or Book of Changes, 3rd Edition translated by Richard Wilhelm (Routledge & Kegan Paul, 1968).There is a particularly tender moment as Chad sits with his mother in the kitchen. She is busily determining the Kua number (a calculation based on the year of birth) for everyone in the family, while he is carefully making a peanut butter and honey sandwich."Mommy" Chad says quietly after a while. "Hmm?""How do I get to become President when I grow up?"Karen looks up from her notebook. Quite unexpectedly, and with the simplest question, her son has managed to move her."You study hard at school and keep doing what you're doing, then you can be whatever you want."Chad smiles."When I'm President, can I make you Vice President?"Karen's eyes shine with affection. Putting aside her Feng Shui studies, she reaches over and gives Chad a big kiss on his forehead."How about Secretary of Defense?"During all this, Tom earns his keep by installing a door to close off the hallway. First, he mounts a wood frame using some of the tools he brought from Lowell and a few more he rented from the local hardware store. Then he hangs a single door with 24-gauge hot-dipped, galvanized steel skins and an acoustical performance rating coded at ASTM E413-70T- STC 28. Last but not least, he puts in four Schlage dead bolts and colour codes the four separate keys: red, yellow, green, and blue.For a while Daisy keeps him company, though it remains hard to determine whether she is more transfixed by Tom or the hallway. At one point she walks up to the threshold and lets out a little yelp, but the cry just flattens and dies in the narrow corridor.Tom seems noticeably relieved when he finally shuts the door and turns over the four locks. Unfortunately as he twists the last key, the accompanying sound contains a familiar ring. He grips the red kye and tries it again. As the dead bolt glances the strike plate, the resulting click creates an unexpected and very unwelcome echo.Slowly, Tom unlocks the door and peers inside.Somehow, and for whatever reason, the thing has grown again.Intermittently, Navidson opens the door himself and stares down the hallway, sometimes using a flashlight, sometimes just studying the darkness itself."What do you do with that?" Navidson asks his brother one eve- ning. "Move," Tom replies.Sadly, even with the unnatural darkness now locked behind a steel door, Karen and Navidson still continue to say very little to each other, their own feelings seemingly as impossible for them to address as the meaning of the hallway itself.61 Chad accompanies his mother to town as she searches  for  various Feng Shui objects guaranteed to  change  the  energy  of  the  home,  while Daisy follows her father around the house as he paces from room to room, talking vehemently on the phone with Reston, trying to  come  up  with  a feasible and acceptable way to investigate the  phenomenon lurking  in  his living room, until  finally,  in  the  middle  of all  this,  he  lifts  his  daughter  onto his shoulders. Unfortunately as soon as Karen returns, Navidson sets Daisy back down on the floor and retreats to the study to continue his discussionsalone.With domestic tensions proving a little too much to stomach, Tom escapes to the garage where he works for a while on a doll house  he  has started to build for Daisy,73 until eventually he  takes  a break,  drifting  out  to the backyard to get high and hot in the  sun,  pointedly  walking  around  the patch of lawn the  hallway  should for  all  intents  and  purposes  occupy. Before long, both Chad and Daisy are sidling up to this great  bear  snoring under a tree, and even though they start to  tie  his  shoe  laces  together,  tickle his nostrils  with long  blades  of grass,  or  use  a mirror  to  focus  the  sun   on his nose, Tom remains remarkably patient. He almost seems to enjoy their mischief, growling, yawning, playing along, putting both of them  in  a headlock, Chad and Daisy laughing hysterically, until finally all three are exhausted and snoozing into dusk.Considering the complexity of Karen and Navidson's  relationship,  it is fortunate our understanding of their problems is not left entirely up to interpretation. Some of their respective views and  feelings are  revealed  in their video journal entries."Sex, sex, sex," Karen whispers into her camcorder. "It was  like we just met when we got here. The kids would go out and we'd fuck in the kitchen, in the shower. We even did  it  in  the  garage.  But  ever  since  that closet thing appeared I can't. I don't know why. It terrifies me."On the same subject, Navidson  offers  a similar  view:  "When  we first moved here, Karen was  like a college co-ed.  Anywhere,  anytime.  Now all of a sudden, she refuses to be touched. I kiss her, she practically starts to cry. And it all started when we got back from Seattle."',But the division between them is not just physical.Karen again: "Doesn't he see I don't want him going  in  there because I love him.  You don't need to be a genius to realize  there's something really bad about that place. Navy, don't you see that?"Navidson: "The only thing I want  to do is go in there but she's adamant that I don't and I love her so I won't but, well, it's just killing me. Maybe because I know this is all about her, her fears, her  anxieties.  She  hasn't even given a thought to what I care about"Until finally the lack of physical intimacy and emotional under- standing leads both of them to make privately voiced ultimatums.Karen: "But I will say this, if he goes in there, I'm outta here. Kids and all."73See Lewis Marsano's "Tom's 1865 Shelter" in This Old House, September/October 1995, p. 87.'¥Nor does it seem to  help  that  Navidson  and Karen  both   have   among  their  books  Erica  Jong's  Fear  of Flying (New York: Holt, Rinehart & Winston, 1973), Anne Hooper's The Ultimate  Sex  Book  :  A Therapist's Guide to the Programs and Techniques Thar Will Enhance Your Relationship and Transform Your Life (DK Publishing, 1992), X.Y.'s Broken  Daisy-Chains  (Seattle:  Town  Over  All  Press,  1989), Chris Allen's 1001 Sex Secrets Every Man Should Know (New York: Avon Books, 1995) as well as Chris Allen's 1001 Sex Secrets Every Woman Should Know (New York: Avon Books, 1995).62 there." Navidson: "If she keeps up this cold front, you bet I'm going in Then  one  night  in  early  August  ____  74 and  the   equally  famous  ____   drop  in  for  dinner.  It   is  a  complete  coincidence  that they happened to be in D.C. at the same time, but neither one  seems  to  mind the presence of the other. As ____ said, "Any friend of Navy's is a friend of mine." Navidson and Karen have known both of them for quite  a few years, so the evening is light hearted and filled with plenty of amusing stories. Clearly Karen and Navidson relish the chance to reminisce  a  little about some good times when things seemed a lot less complicated.Perhaps a little star struck, Tom says very little. There is plenty of opportunity for a glass of wine but he proves himself by keeping to water, though he does excuse himself from the table once to smoke a joint outside. (Much to Tom's surprise and delight, ____ joins him.)As the  evening   progresses, ____   harps   a  little   on   Navid- son' s new found domesticity: "No more Crazy Navy, eh? Are those  days  gone for good? I remember when you'd party all night,  shoot  all  morning,  and then spend the rest of the day developing  your  film-in  a closet  with just a bucket and a bulb if you had to. I'm willing  to  bet  you  don't  even have a darkroom here." Which is just a little too much for Navidson to bear: "Here----, you wanna see a darkroom, I'll show you a darkroom." "Don't you dare, Navy!" Karen  immediately  cries.  "Come  on  Karen, they're our friends," Navidson says, leading  the  two  celebrities  into  the living room where he instructs them to look out the window  so  they  can  see for themselves his ordinary backyard. Satisfied that they understand nothing but trees and lawn could possibly lie  on  the  other  side  of the  wall,  he retrieves the four coloured keys hidden in the antique basinet in the foyer. Everyone is pretty tipsy and the  general  mood  is so friendly and easy it seems impossible to disturb. Which of course all changes when Navidson unlocks the door and reveals the hallway.____	takes one look at that dark place and retreats into thekitchen.  Ten  minutes  later    ____      is   gone.     ____      steps   up  to the threshold, points Navidson's flashlight at the walls and floor and then retires to the bathroom. A little later ____ is also gone.Karen is so enraged by the whole incident, she makes Navidson sleep on the couch with his "beloved hallway."No surprise, Navidson fails to fall asleep.He tosses around for an hour until he finally gets up and goes off in search of his camera.A title card reads: Exploration AThe time stamp on Navidson's camcorder indicates that it is exactly 3:19 A.M."Call me impetuous or just curious," we hear him  mutter  as  he shoves his sore feet into a pair of boots." But a little look around isn't  going to hurt."Without ceremony, he unlocks the door and slips across the thresh- old, taking with him only a Hi 8, a MagLite, and his 35mm Nikon. The commentary he provides us with remains very  spare:  "Cold.  Wow,  really cold! Walls are dark. Similar to the closet space upstairs." Within a few74zampano provided the blanks but never filled them in.63 seconds he reaches the end. The hallway cannot be more than seventy feet long. "That's it. Nothing else. No big deal. Over this Karen and I have been fighting." Except as Navidson swings around, he suddenly discovers a new doorway to the right. It was not there before."What the ... 11"Navidson carefully nudges his flashlight into this new darkness and discovers an even longer corridor. "This one's easily ... I'd say a hundred feet." A few seconds later, he comes across a still larger corridor branching off to the left. It is at least fifteen feet wide with a ceiling well over ten feet high.  The   length  of  this   one,   however,  is   impossible  to  estimate asNavidson's flashlight proves useless against the darkness ahead, dying long before it can ever come close to determining an end.Navidson pushes ahead, moving deeper and deeper into the house, eventually passing a number of doorways leading off into alternate passageways or chambers. "Here's a door. No lock. Hmmrn ... a room, not very big. Empty. No windows. No switches. No outlets. Heading back to the corridor. Leaving the room. It seems colder now. Maybe  I'm justgetting colder. Here's another door. Unlocked.  Another room.  Again no windows. Continuing on."Flashlight and camera skitter across ceiling and floor in loose harmony, stabbing into small rooms, alcoves, or spaces reminiscent of closets, though no shirts hang there. Still, no matter how far Navidson proceeds down this particular passageway, his light never comes close to touching the punctuation point promised by the converging perspective lines,  sliding  on  and  on  and  on,l  spawning  one  space  after  another,  aconstant stream of comers and w als, all of them unreadable and perfectlysmooth.Finally, Navidson stops in front of an entrance much larger than the rest. It arcs high above his head and yawns into an undisturbed blackness. His flashlight finds the floor but no walls and, for the first time, no ceiling.Only now do we begin to see how big Navidson's house really is.Something should be said here about Navidson's hand. Out of all the footage he personally shoots, there rarely exists a shake, tremble, jerk, or even a case of poor framing. His camera, no matter the circumstances, manages to view the world-even this world-with a remarkable steadiness as well as a highly refined aesthetic sensibility.Comparisons immediately make Navidson's strengths apparent. Holloway Roberts' tape is virtually unwatchable: tilted frames, out of focus, shakes, horrible lighting and finally oblivion when faced with danger. Likewise Karen and Tom's tapes reflect their inexperience and can only be considered for content. Only the images Navidson shoots capture the otherness inherent in that place. Undeniably Navidson's experience as a photojournalist gives him an advantage over the rest when focusing on something that is as terrifying as it is threatening. But, of course, there is more at work here than just the courage to stand and focus. There is also the courage to face and shape the subject in an extremely original manner.1566 As Navidson takes his first step through that immense arch, he is suddenly a long way away from the wann light of the living room. In fact his creep into that place resembles the eerie faith required for any deep sea exploration, the beam of his flashlight scratching at nothing but the invariant blackness.Navidson keeps his attention focused on the floor ahead of him, andno doubt because he keeps looking down, the floor begins to assume a new meaning. It can no longer be taken for granted. Perhaps something lies beneath it. Perhaps it will open up into some deep fissure.Suddenly immutable silence rushes in to replace what had momen-tarily shattered it.Navidson freezes, unsure whether or not he really just heard something growl."I better be able to find my way back," he finally whispers, which though probably muttered in jest suddenly catches him off guard.Navidson swiftly turns around. Much to his horror, he can no longer see the arch let alone the wall. He has walked beyond the range of his light. In fact, no matter where he points the flashlight, the only thing he can perceive is oily darkness. Even worse, his panicked tum and the subsequent absence of any landmarks has made it impossible for him to remember which direction he just came from."Oh god" he blurts, creating odd repeats in the distance. He twists around again."Hey!" he shouts, spawning a multitude of a's, then rotates forty- five degrees and yells "Balls!" a long moment of silence follows before he hears the faint halls racing back through the dark. After several more such turns, he discovers a loud "easy" returns a z with the least amount of delay. This is the direction he decides on, and within less than a minute the beam from his flashlight finds something more than darkness.Quickening his pace slightly, Navidson reaches the wall and the safety he perceives there. He now faces another decision: left or right. This time, before going anywhere, he reaches into his pocket and places a penny67 at his feet. Relying on this marker, he heads left for a while. When a minute passes and he has still failed to find the entrance,  he  returns  to  the  penny. Now he moves off to the right and very quickly  comes  across  a  dooiway, only this one, as we can see, is much smaller and  has  a different  shape  than the one he originally came through. He decides to keep walking. When a minute passes and he still has not found the arch, he stops."Think, Navy, think," he whispers to himself,  his  voice  edged slightly with fear.Again that faint growl returns, rolling through the darkness like  thunder.Navidson quickly does an about face and returns to the dooiway. Only now he discovers that the  penny  be left behind, which should have been at least a hundred feet further, lies  directly  before  him.  Even  stranger, the dooiway is no longer the dooiway but the arch  he  had  been  looking  for all along.Unfortunately as he steps through it, he immediately sees bow drastically everything has changed. The corridor is now much narrower and ends very quickly in a T. He has no idea which way to go, and when a third growl ripples through that place, this time significantly louder, Navidson panics and starts to run.His  sprint,  however,  lasts  only  a few  seconds.	He realizes quicklyenough that it is a useless, even dangerous, course of action. Catching his breath and doing his best to calm his frayed nerves, he  tries  to  come  up  with a better plan."Karen!" he finally shouts, a flurry of air-in's almost instantly swallowed in front of him. "Tom!" he tries, briefly catching hold of the-om's as they too start to vanish, though before doing so  completely,  Navidson momentarily detects in the last -om a slightly  higher  pitch entwined in his own voice.He waits a moment, and not hearing anything else,  shouts  again:  "I'm in here!" giving rise to tripping on-ear's reverberating and fading,  until in the next to last instant a sharp cry comes  back  to  him,  a  child's  cry, calling out for him, drawing him to the right.By shouting "I'm here" and following the add-ee's singing off the walls, Navidson slowly begins to make his  way through an incredibly complex and frequently disorienting series of turns. Eventually after backtracking several times and making numerous wrong  choices, occasionally descending into disturbing  territories  of  silence,  the  voice begins to grow noticeably louder, until finally  Navidson  slips  around  a corner, certain he has found his  way out. Instead  though, he encounters only more darkness and this  time  greater  quiet.  His  breathing  quickens.  He is uncertain which way to  go.  Obviously  he  is  afraid.  And  then  quite abruptly he steps to the right through a low passageway and discovers a corridor terminating in warm yellow light, lamp light, with a tiny silhouette standing in the dooiway, tugging her daddy home with a cry.Emerging into the safety of his own living room, Navidson immedi-ately scoops Daisy up in his arms and gives her a big hug."I had a nightmare," she says with a very serious nod.Similar to the Khumbu Icefall at the base  of Mount  Everest  where blue seracs and chasms change unexpectedly throughout the day and night, Navidson is the first one to discover how that place also seems to constantly change. Unlike the lcefall, however, not  even  a  single  hairline fracture appears in those walls. Absolutely nothing visible to the eye provides a68 reason for or even evidence  of those terrifying shifts which can in a matter of moments reconstitute a simple path into an extremely complicated one.77foreseen dissolution of the self, lost without contrast, slipping into oblivion, until mid-gasp I catch sight of my reflection in the back of the tray, the ghost in the way:   seems  I'm not gone, not quite.	My face has been splattered with purple, as have my  arms,  granting contrast, and thus defining me, marking me, and at least for the moment, preserving me.Suddenly I can breathe and with each breath the terror rapidly dissipates.My boss, however, is scared shitless."Jesus Christ Johnny,"  he says.	"Are you okay?	What happened?"Can't you see I've  shit myself,  I think to shout.	But now I see that I haven't.	Except for the ink blotting my threads, my pants are bone dry.I mumble something about how much my toe hurts.He takes that to mean I'm alright and won't try to sue him from a wheelchair.Later a patron points out the long, bloody scratch on the back of  my neck.I'm unable to respond.Now though, I realize what I should of said-in the spirit of the dark; in the spirit of the staircase"Known some call is air am." Which is to say -"I am not what I used to be."787811lough Mr. Truant's asides may often seem impenetrable, they are not withoutrhyme or reason. The reader who wishes to interpret Mr. Truant on his or her own may disregard this note. Those, however. who feel they would profit from a better understanding of his past may wish to proceed ahead and read his father's obituary in Appendix 11-D as well as those letters written by his institutionalized mother in Appendix 11-E. - Ed.72 "What's the matter," she murmurs, still half-asleep. "Go back to sleep. Daisy just had a bad dream." Navidson starts to go back downstairs."I'm sorry Navy," Karen says quietly. "I'm sorry I got so mad. It's not your fault. That thing just scares me. Come back to bed."And as they later confide in separate video entries, that night, for the first time in weeks, they made love again, their descriptions running the gamut of anything from" gentle" and" comforting" to "farniliar" and "very satisfying." Their bodies had repaired what words never tried to, and at least for a little while they felt close again.The next morning, with harmony now restored, Navidson cannot bring himself to tell Karen about his visit. Fortunately having nearly gotten lost inside his own house has for the moment diminished his appetite for its darkness. He promises to turn over the initial investigation to Billy Reston: "Then we'll call The New York Times, Larry King, whoever, and we'll move. End of story." Karen responds to his offer with kisses, clinging to his hand, a stability of sorts once again returning to their lives.Still the compromise is far from satisfying. As Karen records on her Hi 8: "I told Navy I'll stay for the first look in there but I've also called Mom. I want to get out of here as soon as possible."Navidson admits in his: "I feel lousy about lying to Karen. But I think it's unreasonable of her to expect me not to investigate. She knows who I am. I think - "At which point, the study door suddenly swings open and Daisy, wearing a red and gold dress, barges in and begins tugging on her father's sleeve."Come play with me Daddy." Navidson lifts his daughter onto his lap. "Okay. What do you want to play?""I don't know," she shrugs. "Always.""What's always?"But before she can answer, he starts tickling her around the neck and Daisy dissolves into bursts of delight.Despite the tremendous amount of material generated by Exploration A, no one has ever commented on the game Daisy wants to play with her father, perhaps because everyone assumes it is either a request "to play always" or just a childish neologism.Then again, "always" slightly mispronounces "hallways." It also echoes it.73 VI[AnimalsJ /,ack a symbolic identity and the self- consciousness that goes with it. They  merely  act  and move reflexively as they are driven by their  instincts.  If they pause at all, it is only a physical pause; inside  they are anonymous, and even their  faces  have  no  name. They live in a  world  without  time,  pulsating,  as  it  were, in a state of dumb being ... The knowledge of death is reflective and conceptual, and animals are spared it. They live and they disappear with the same thoughtlessness: a few minutes o ffear, a few seconds of anguish, and it is over. But to live a whole lifetime with the fate of death haunting one's dreams and even the most sun-filled days-that's something else.-	Ernest BeckerWhile the pragmatic space ofanimals is afunction of inborn instincts, man has to learn what orientation he needs in order to act.-	Christian Norberg-SchulzWhen Hillary, the grey coated Siberian husky,  appears  at  the  end of The Navidson Record, he is no longer a puppy. A couple of years have passed. Something forever watchful has taken up residence in his eyes. He may be playful with  those  he  knows  but  whenever  strangers  wander  too close they invariably hear a growl rising from  somewhere  deep  in  his  throat, a little like distant thunder, warning them away.79Mallory, the tabby cat, vanishes completely, and no mention is made about what happened to him. His disappearance remains a mystery.One thing however is certain: the house played a very small  part  in both their histories.The incident took place on August 11th, 1990 a week after Will Navidson's secret exploration of the hallway. Saturday morning cartoons blare from the kitchen television, Chad and Daisy munch  down  their breakfast, and Karen stands outside smoking a cigarette,  talking  on   the phone with Audrie McCullogh, her shelf building accomplice. The topic of the moment is Feng Shui and all it has failed to do. "No matter how many ceramic turtles or  wooden  ducks,  goldfish,  celestial  dragons,  or  bronze lions I put in this goddamn house," she rants. "It  still  keeps  throwing  off this awful energy. I need to find a psychic. Or an exorcist. Or a really good74 real-estate agent." Meanwhile in the living room, Tom helps Navidson talce some still shots of the hallway using a strobe.Suddenly, somewhere in the house, there  is  a  loud  yowl  and  bark. An instant later Mallory comes screaming into the living room with Hillary nipping at his tail. It is not  the  first  time  they  have involved themselves in such a routine. The only exception is that on this occasion,  after dashing  up and over the sofa, both puppy and cat head straight down the hallway and disappear into the darkness. Navidson probably would  have  gone  in after them had he not instantly heard barks outside followed by Karen's shouts accusing him of letting the animals  out  when  on  that  day  they  were supposed to stay in."What the hell?" we hear Navidson mutter loudly.Sure enough Hillary and Mallory are in the backyard. Mallory up  a tree, Hillary howling grandly over his achievement.For something so startling, it seems surprising how little  has  been made of this event. Bernard Porch in his four thousand page treatise on The Navidson Record devotes only a third of a sentence to  the  subject:  " , (strange how the house won't support the presence of animals)."80 Mary Widmunt leaves us with  just one  terse  question:  "So  what's  the  deal  with the pets?"81 Even Navidson himself, the consummate  investigator, never revisits the subject.Who knows what might have been discovered if he had.Regardless, Holloway soon  arrives  and  any  understanding  that might have been gained by further analyzing the strange relationship between animals and the house is passed over in favor  of  human exploration.8275 EndnotesI'm afraid.It is hungry.	It is immortal. Worse, it knows nothing of whim.79 VIIBut all this-the mysterious, far-reaching hair-line trail, the absence of sun from the sky, the  tremendous  cold, and the strangeness and weirdness of it all-made no impression on the man. It was not because he was long used to it. He was a newcomer in the land, a chechaquo, and this was his first winter. The trouble with him was that he was without imagination.- Jack London"To Build A Fire"Holloway Roberts arrives carrying a rifle. In fact in the very first shot we see of him, he emerges from a truck holding a Weatherby 300 magnum.Even without weapons though, Holloway would still be an intimi- dating man. He is broad and powerful with a thick beard and deeply creased brow. Dissatisfaction motivates him, and at forty-eight, he still drives himself harder than any man half his age. Consequently, when he steps onto Navidson's front lawn, arms folded, eyes scrutinizing the house, bees flying near his boots, he looks less like a guest and more like some conquistador landing on new shores, preparing for war.Born in Menomonie, Wisconsin, Holloway Roberts has made acareer as a professional hunter and explorer. As travel writer Aramis Garcia Pineda commented: "He is confident, leads well, and possesses a remarkable amount of brassball courage. Over the past some have resented his strength and drive but most agree the sense of security one feels in his presence-especially in life-threatening situations-makes tolerating the irritating sides of his character well worth it. "83When Navidson told Reston how Karen had explicitly asked himnot to explore the hallway-and presumably Navidson described the discoveries he made during Exploration A-the first person Reston called was Holloway.Reston had met Holloway four years earlier at a symposium on arctic gear design held at Northwestern University. Holloway was one of the speakers invited to represent explorers. Not only did he clearly articulate the problems with current equipment, he also focused on what was needed to correct the problems. Though a fairly humorless speech, its conciseness impressed many people there, especially Reston who bought the man a drink. A sort of friendship soon developed.84 "I always thought he was83See Aramis Garcia Pineda's "More Than Meets The Eye" in Field and Stream, v. 100, January 1996, 39-47.Leezel Brant's "Billy Reston's Friends For Life" in Backpacker, v. 23, February 1995, p. 7.80 rock solid," Reston said  much  later in  The  Reston  Interview.  "Just  look at his C. V. Never for a moment did I suspect he was capable of that. "85As it turned out, as soon as  Holloway  saw  the  tape  of  "The  Five and Half Minute Hallway", which Reston had sent him, he was more than willing to participate  in  an investigation. 'fS; Within a week he had arrived at the house, along with two employees: Jed Leeder and Kirby "Wax" Hook.As we learn in The Navidson Record, Jed Leeder lives  in Seattle, though he was originally from Vineland, New  Jersey.  He  had  actually  been on his way to becoming a career truck driver when a trans-continental  job took him all the way to Washington.  It  was there that he  discovered  the great outdoors was not just some myth conjured up in a magazine. He was twenty-seven when he first saw the Cascades. One look was  all  he  needed. Love at first sight. He quit his job on the spot and started  selling  camping  gear. Six years later he is still a long way from Vineland,  and  as  we  can  see for ourselves, his passion for the Pacific Northwest and the great  outdoors only seems to have grown more intense.Consummately shy, almost to the point of frailty, Jed possesses an uncanny sense of direction and remarkable endurance. Even Holloway concedes that Jed would probably out distance him in a packless climb. When he is not trekking, Jed  loves drinking coffee,  watching  the  tide  turn, and listening to Lyle Lovett with  his  fiancee.  "She's  from Texas,"  he  tells us very softly. "I think that's where we're going to get married."86Wax Hook could not be more different. At twenty-six, he is theyoungest member  of  the  Holloway  team.  Born  in  Aspen,  Colorado, he grew up on mountain faces and  in  cave  shafts. Before  he  could  walk  he knew where to drive a piton and before he could talk he had a whole vocabulary of knots under his fingers. If there is such a thing as a climbing prodigy, Wax is it. By the time he dropped out of high school, he had climbed more peaks than most climbers have claimed  in  a lifetime.  In  one clip, he tells us how he plans to eventually make a solo ascent of Everest's North Face: "And I'll tell  you this,  more  than  a few  people  are  bettin'  I'll do it."When Wax was twenty-three, Holloway hired him as a guide. Forthe next three years, Wax helped Holloway and Jed lead teams up Mt. McKinley, down into Ellison's Cave in Georgia, or across some Nepalese cwm. The pay was not much to brag about but the experience  was  worth  plenty.Wax sometimes gets a little out of hand. He  likes  to drink,  get  laid, and most of all boast about how much he drank and how many times he got laid. But he never brags about climbing.  Booze  and  women  are  one  thing but "a rocky face is always better  than  you  and  if you  make  it  down  alive you 're grateful you had a good trip."87"This though has to be the weirdest," Wax later tells Navidson, right before making his last foray down the hallway. "When Holloway asked me85Se Exhibit Four for the complete transcript of The Reston Interview.$Gabriel Reller in his book Beyond The Grasp of Commercial Media (Athens, Ohio: Ohio University Press, 1995) suggests that the appearance of the first short entitled "The Five and a Half Minute HalJway" originated here: "Holloway probably copied the tape,  gave  it  to  a couple  of friends,  who  in  tum  passed  it along to others. Eventually it found its way to the academic set" (p. 252).86see also Susan Wright's "Leeder of the Pack" in Outdoor Life, v. I95, June 1995, p. 28.87Bentley Harper's "Hook, Line and Sinker" i.n Sierra, v. 81, July/August 1996, p. 42.81 if I wanted to explore a house I thought he was cracked. But whatever Holloway does is interesting to me, so sure  I went for  it,  and  sure  enough this is the weirdest!"On the day Holloway and his team arrive at Ash  Tree  Lane,  Navid- son and Tom are there to greet them at  the  door.  Karen  says  a brief  hello and leaves to pick the children up from school. Reston makes the necessary introductions and then after everyone has gathered in the  living  room, Navidson begins to explain what he knows about the hallway.He shows them a map he drew  based  on  his  first  visit  Tellingly, this hardly strikes Tom as news. While Navidson does his best to impress  upon everyone the dangers posed by the tremendous  size  of  that  place  as well as the need to record in detail every part of the exploration, Tom  passes out xerox copies of his brother's diagram.Jed finds it difficult to stop smiling while  Wax  finds  it  difficult  to stop laughing. Holloway keeps throwing glances at Reston.  In  spite  of  the tape he saw, Holloway seems convinced that Navidson has more than a few loose wing nuts jangling around in bis cerebral cortex. But  when  the  four dead bolts are at last unlocked and the hallway door drawn open, the icy darkness instantly slaughters every smile and glance.Newt Kuellster suspects the first view  of  that  place  irreparably altered something in Holloway: "His face loses color,  something  even  close to panic suffuses his system. Suddenly he sees what fortune has  plopped  on his plate and how famous and rich it could make him, and he  wants  it.  He wants all of it, immediately, no matter the cost."88 Studying Holloway's reaction, it is almost impossible to deny  how  serious  he  gets  staring  down the hallway. "How far back does it go?" he finally asks."You're about to find out," Navidson replies, sizing up the man, a half-smile on his lips. "Just be careful of the shifts."From the first time they  shake  hands  on  the  doorstep,  it  is  obvious to us Navidson and Holloway dislike each other. Neither one says anything critical but both men bristle in  each  other's  presence.  Holloway  is  probably a little unnerved  by  Navidson's  distinguished  career.  Navidson,  no  doubt, is privately incensed that he must ask  another  man  to  explore  his  own house. Holloway does not make this intrusion any easier. He is cocky and following Navidson's little introduction immediately starts calling the shots.In earlier years, Navidson  would  have  probably  paid  little  attention to Karen and headed down those corridors by himself-danger be damned. Yet as has already been discussed, the move to Virginia was about repairing their crumbling relationship. Karen would refrain from relying on  other  men to mollify her insecurities if Navidson curbed his own risk-lust and gave domesticity a real shot. After all, as Karen later intimated, their home was supposed to bring them closer together. 89 The appearance of the hallway, however, tests those informal vows. Navidson finds  himself  constantly itching to leave his family for that place just as Karen discovers old patterns surfacing in herself.Later that evening, Holloway places his hand on Karen's back and makes her laugh with a line the camera never hears. Navidson immediately88 See Newt Kuellster's "The Five and a Half Minute Holloway" in The Holloway Question (San Francisco: Metalambino Inc., 1996), p. 532; as well as  Tiffany  Baiter's  "Gone  Away"  in  People,  v.  43,  May  15, 1995, p. 89.89See Chapter XUI.82 bumps Holloway aside with his shoulder, revealing, for one thing, his  own easily underestimated strength. Navidson, however, reserves his glare for Karen. She laughs it off but the uneasy energy released recalls Leslie Buckman and Dale Corrdigan's accusations.90Yet even after Navidson's interjection,  Holloway  still  finds  it  difficult to keep his eyes off of Karen. Her flirting hardly  helps.  She  is bright, extremely sexual, and just as Navidson has  always  enjoyed  danger, she has always thrived on attention.Karen brings the men beers  and  they  go  outside  with  her  and  light her cigarettes. It matters very little what they say, her eyes always flash, she gives them that famous smile, and sure  enough  soon  they  are  all  doting  on her.Navidson confides to his Hi 8," I can't tell you how much I'd like todeviate that fucker's [Holloway's] septum." And then later on mutters somewhat enigmatically: "For that I should throw her out." Still aside from these comments and the strong nudge he gave Holloway, Navidson refrains from openly displaying any other signs of jealousy or rage.Unfortunately he also refrains from openly considering the signifi- cance of these feelings. The closest he comes appears in a Hi 8 journal entry spliced in following his encounter with  Holloway.  On  camera,  Navidson treats what he refers to as "his rotten feet." As we can  clearly  see,  the  tops are puffy and in some places  as  red  as  clay.  Furthermore,  all  his  toe  nails are horribly cracked, disfigured, and yellow.  "Perpetuated,"  Navidson informs us. "By a nasty fungus two decades worth of doctors  finally ended up calling S-T-R-E-S-S." Sitting by himself on the edge of the tub, blood stained socks draped over the edge, he carefully spreads a silky ointment around what he glibly calls his "light fantastic toe." It is one  of the  more  naked moments of Navidson, and especially considering its placement in the sequence, seems to reveal in a non-verbal way some of the anxiety Karen's flirtation with Holloway has provoked in him.All of which becomes pretty irrelevant as Holloway  soon  spends  most of his hours leading his team down that lightless hallway.Frequently treatment of the first  three  explorations  has  concentrated on the physical aspects of the house. Florencia Calzatti,  however,  has shown in her compelling book The Fraying of the American Family (New York: Arcade Publishing, 1995)- no longer in print- how these invasions begin to strip the Navidsons of any existing cohesion. It is an interesting examination of  the complex  variables implicit  in  any  intrusion. Unfortunately understanding Calzatti's work is not at all easy, as  she  makes her case using a peculiar idiom no reader will find readily comprehensible90Refer to footnotes 19 and 20  concerning Karen's infidelities. Perhaps  it  also should be  noted  here  that  for all his wanderings Navidson was pointedly not promiscuous. Good looks, intelligence, and fame did  not combine to create an adulterous lifestyle. Iona Panofsky in "Saints, Sinners, and Photojournalists" Fortune,v. 111, March 18, 1985, p.  20, attributes Navidson's  genius  to  his  "monk-like  existence."  However, Australian native, Ryan Murray in his book Wilder Ways (Sydney: Outback Works, 1996) calls Navidson's monastic habits "a sure sign of unresolved oedipal anxieties, repressed homosexuality, and  a disturbed  sense of self. Considering the time he spent away  from  home  coupled  with  the  kind  of  offers  he  got  from  the most exotic and tantalizing women (not even including those  from  his  numerous  female  assistants),  his refusal proves a nauseating absence of character. Make no mistake  about  it:  over  here  his  kind  enter  a bar with a smile and leave with a barstool for a hat." An odd thing to say considering Navidson drank freely  in   every Australian bar he ever visited and  on  the one occasion when he  was attacked  by   two  drunks, purportedly angry over all the attention the  waitresses  were  lavishing  on  him,  both  inebriates  left  bruised and bleeding. (The Wall Street Journal, March 29, 1985, p. 3 I, column 3.)83 (e.g. She never refers to Holloway as anything but "the stranger"; Jed and Wax appear as only "the instruments"; and the house is encoded as "the patient"). No doubt inspired by Calzatti, a small group of other writers, including the poet Elfor O'Halloran, have continued to mull over the dynamics brought on by Holloway's arrival.91Without focusing too closely on the f ine filigree of detail presented in these pieces-a book in itself-it is worthwhile, however briefly, to track the narrative events of the three explorations and recite to some degree how they effect the Navidsons.For Exploration #1, Holloway, Jed and Wax enter the hallway equipped with Hi 8s, down parkas, hats, Gortex gloves, powerful halogen lamps, extra batteries, and a radio to keep in contact with Navidson, Tom and Reston. Navidson ties one end of some fishing line to the hallway door and then hands the spool to Holloway."There's almost two miles of line here," he tells him. "Don't let goof it."Karen says nothing when she hears Navidson make this comment,though she does get up abruptly to go out to the backyard and smoke a cigarette. It is particularly eerie to watch Holloway and his team disappear down the long hallway, while just outside Karen paces back and forth in the light of a September day, oblivious of the space she repeatedly crosses though for whatever reason cannot penetrate.92An hour later, Holloway, Jed, and Wax return. When their Hi 8 tapes are replayed in the living room, we watch along with everyone else how a series of lefts eventually leads them to the apparently endless corridor whi  ch,  again   to   the   left,   offers   entrance   into   that   huge   space   where Navidson almost got lost. Though Holloway's ability to shoot this trip hardly compares to the expertise evident in Navidson's Exploration A, it is still thrilling to follow the trio as they investigate the darkness.As they quickly discover, the void above them is not infinite. Their flashlights, much more powerlul than Navidson's, illuminate a ceiling at least two hundred feet high. A little later, at least fifteen hundred feet away, they discover an opposing wall. What no one is prepared for, however, is the even larger entrance waiting for them, opening into an even greater void.Two things keep them from proceeding further. One- Holloway runs out of fishing line. In fact, he briefly considers setting the spool down, when two-he hears the growl Navidson had warned them about. A little rattled by the sound, Holloway decides to tum back in order to better consider their next move. As Navidson foretold, they soon see for themselves how all the walls have shifted (though not as severely as they had for Navidson). Fortunately, the changes have not severed the fishing line and the three men find their way back to the living room with relative ease.Exploration #2 takes place the following day. This time Hollo- way carries with him four spools of fishing line, several flares, and some91Consider Bingham Arzumanian's "Stranger in a Hall" Journal of Psychoanalysis, v.14 April 12, 1996, p. 142; Yvonne Hunsucker's "Counseling, Relief, and lntrojection" Medicine, v.2 July 18, 1996, p. 56; Curtis Melchor's "The Surgical Hand" Internal Medicine, v.8 September 30, 1996, p. 93; and Elfor O'Halloran's "Invasive Cures'' Homeopathic Alternatives, October 31, 1996, p. 28.92See Jeffrey Neblett's "The Illusion of Intimacy and Depth" Ladies' Home Journal, v. 111, January I 994,p. 90-93.84 neon markers. He virtually ignores Navidson, putting Wax in charge of  a 35mm camera and instructing Jed on how to collect scratchings from all the walls they pass along the way. Reston provides the dozen or so sample jars.Though Exploration #2 ends up lasting over eight hours, Holloway,Jed, Wax only hear the growl once  and  the  resulting  shifts  are  negligible. The first hallway seems narrower,  the  ceiling  a little lower,  and  while  some of the rooms they pass look larger, for  the  most  part  everything  has  remained the same. It is almost as if continued use deters the growl and preserves the path they walk.Aside from feeling generally incensed by what he perceives as Holloway's postured authority, Navidson almost  goes  berserk  listening  to the discoveries on the radio. Reston and Tom try to cheer him up and to Navidson's credit he tries to  act  cheerful,  but  when  Jed  announces  they have crossed what he names the Anteroom and entered what Holloway starts calling the Great Hall, Navidson finds it increasingly more difficult to conjure even a smile.Radio psychologist Fannie Lamkins believes this is a clear cutexample of the classic male struggle for dominance:It's bad enough to hear the Great Hall has a ceiling at least five hundred feet high with a span that may approach a mile, but when Holloway radios that they've found a stair- case in the center which is over two hundred feet in diameter and spirals down  into  noth- ing, Navidson has to hand Reston the radio, unable to muster another  word  of  support. He has been deprived of the right to name what he inherently understands as his own.93Lamkins sees Navidson's willingness to obey Karen's injunction as  a sacrifice on par with scarification, "though invisible to Karen. "94After Holloway's team returns, Jed tries to describe the staircase: "It was enormous. We dropped a few flares down it but never heard them hit bottom. I mean in that place,  it  being  so empty and cold and still and all, you really can hear a pin drop, but the darkness  just  swallowed  the  flares right up." Wax nods, and then adds with a shake of his head: "It's so deep, man, it's like it's almost dream like."This last comment is actually not uncommon, especially for indi- viduals who find themselves confronting vast tenebrific spaces. Back in the mid-60s, American cavers tackled the Sotano de  las  Golondrinas,  an incredible 1,092ft hole in Mexico's Sierra Madre Oriental. They used rope, rappel racks, and mechanical ascenders  to  make  the  descent.  Later  on,  one of the cavers described his experience: "I  was  suspended  in  a giant  dome with thousands of birds circling in  small  groups  near  the  vague  blackcloth of the far walls. Moving slowly down the rope, I had the feeling that I was93Fannie Lamkins' "Eleven Minute Shrink," KLAT, Buffalo, New York, June 24, 1994.94Ibid. Florencia Calzatti also sees Karen's edict as violent, though she  ultimately  considers  it  of  great value: "A needed rite to reinvigorate and strengthen the couple's personal bonds." The Fraying of the American Family, p. 249.85 descending into an illusion and would soon become part  of  it as the distances became unrelatable and entirely unreal."95When Holloway plays back the Hi 8s for everyone, Navidson's frustrations get the best of him. He leaves the room.  It  hardly  helps  that Karen stays, entirely engrossed in  Holloway's  presentation and  the  ghostly if inadequate images of a banister frozen  on  the  monitor.  Tom,  actually, pulls her aside and tries to convince her to let Navidson lead the next exploration."Tom," she replies defensively. "Nothing's stopping Navy. If he  wants to go, he can go. But then I go  too.  That's our deal. He knows that. You know that."Tom seems a little shocked by her anger, until Karen directs his attention to Chad and Daisy, sitting in the kitchen, working  hard  at  not doing their homework."Look at them," she whispers. "Navy's had a lifetime of wandering and danger. He can let someone else take over now. It won't kill him,  but  losing him  would  kill  them.  It would  kill  me  too.  I want  to grow  old, Tom. I want to grow old with him. Is that such an awful thing?"Her words clearly register with Tom, who perhaps  also  perceives what a great toll his brother's death would have on him as well.96When he sees Navidson next, Tom tells him  to  go  find  his  son. Based on what we can tell from The Navidson Record, it appearsChad soon got fed up with his  class  assignment  and  took  off  down  the street with Hillary, determined to explore his  own  dark.  Navidson  had  to look for almost an hour before he finally found him.  Chad  it  turned  out  was in the park filling a jar full of fireflies. Instead of scolding him, Navidson helped out.By ten, they had returned home with jars full  of  light  and  hands sticky with ice cream.Exploration #3 ends up lasting almost twenty hours. Relying primarily on the team's radio transmissions interspersed with a few clips from the Hi 8s, Navidson relates how Holloway,  Jed,  and  Wax  take  forty- five minutes to reach the Spiral Staircase only to spend the next seven hours walking down it. When they at last stop, a dropped flare still  does  not illuminate or sound a bottom. Jed notes that the diameter has also increased from two hundred feet to well over five hundred  feet.  It  takes  them  over eleven hours to return.Unlike the two previous explorations,  this  intrusion  brings  them face to face with the consequences of the immensity of that place. All  three men come back cold, depleted, their muscles aching, their enthusiasm gone."I got some vertigo," Jed confesses. "I  had to  step way  back  from  the edge and sit down. That was a first for me." Wax  is  more  cavalier, claiming to have felt no fear, though for some reason he is  more  exhausted than the rest. Holloway remains the most  stoic,  keeping  any  doubts  to himself, adding only that the experience is beyond the power of any Hi 8 or 35mm camera: "It's impossible to photograph what we saw."9795P lanet Earth: Underground Worlds by Donald Dale Jackson and The Editors of Time-Life Books (Alexandra, Virginia: Time-Life Books, 1982), p. 149.96Both Bingham Arzumanian and Curtis Melchor's pieces have offered valuable insight into the nature of Tom's alignment with Karen. Also see Chapter XI.97Marjorie Preece uses this one line to launch into her powerfully observed essay "The Loss of Authority: Holloway's Challenge" Kaos Journal, v. 32, September, 1996, p. 44.  Preece wonderfully shows how86 Even after seeing Navidson's accomplished shots, it is hard to disagree with Holloway. The darkness recreated in a lab or television set does not begin to tell the true story. Whether chemical clots determining black or video grey approximating absence, the images still remain two dimensional. In order to have a third dimension, depth  cues  are  required, which in the case of the stairway means more light. The flares, however, barely illuminate the size of that bore. In fact they are easily extinguished  by the very thing they are supposed to expose. Only knowledge illuminates that bottomless place, disclosing the deep ultimately absent in all the tapes and stills-those strange cartes de visites. It is unfortunate that Holloway's images cannot even be counted as approximations of that  vast  abrupt,  where as Rilke wrote, "aber da, an diesem schwarzen Fe/lei wird dein stiirkstes Schauen aufgelost."98Holloway's assertion that the camera is impotent within the house "helps establish him-at least for a little whiJe-as the tribe's head."89 Resistance to representation,  however,  is  not  the  only  difficulty  posed by those replicating chambers and corridors. As  Karen  discovers,  the  whole house defies any normal means of determining direction.Apparently while  Karen  had  been  struggling  with  the  explorers' invasion of her home, her mother had managed to acquire the number of a Feng  Shui master in Manhattan. After a long conversation with this expert, Karen is relieved to learn she has  been  putting  all  the  ceramic  animals,  crystals,  and plants in the wrong places.  She is  still told to  use  the  Pau  Kua  table,  I  Ching,  and the Lo Shu magic square, but to do so  with  the  assistance  of a  compass. Since much of Feng Shui, especially in  the  Compass  School,  relies  on auspicious and inauspicious directions, it is crucial to get an  accurate  reading  on how the house sits in relationship to points north, south, east, and west.Karen immediately goes out and buys a compass-this while the menare in the midst of Exploration #2. Upon returning home, however, she is astonished to find the compass refuses to settle on any one direction inside the house. Assuming it must be  broken,  she  drives  back  to  town  and  exchanges  it for a new one. Apparently  this  time she tests  it in the store. Satisfied, she returns to the house only to discover that once again the compass is useless.100No matter what room she stands in, whether in the back or the front, upstairs or downstairs, the needle never stays still. North it seems has no authority there. Tom confirms  the  strange  phenomenon,  and  during  Exploration #3 Holloway, who up till then has relied  solely  on  neon  arrows  and  fishing  line to mark their path, demonstrates how the same holds  true for a compass read within those ash-like halls."I'll be damned," HolJoway grunts as he stares at the twitchingneedle.IOI "I guess all we've got now is your sense of direction," Wax jokingly tells Jed, which as Luther Shepard  wrote:  "Only  helps  to  emphasize  how  real the threat was of getting lost in there."10299MBut  here  within  this  thick  black  pelt,   your   strongest  gaze   will  be  absorbed   and utterly disappear. H As translated by Stephen MitcheII. - Ed.100Rosemary Park considers Karen's dilemma highly emblematic of the  absence of cu.ltural polarities: "Inthis case, Karen's  inability  to  determine  a direction  is  not  a fault  but  a challenge,  requi.ring  tools  more capable than compasses and reference points more accurate than magnetic fields." See "Impossible Directions" in Inside Out (San Francisco: Urban B-light, 1995), p. 91.IOIDevon Lettau wrote an amusing if ultimately pointless  essay  on  the  compass'  behavior.  He asserted that the minute fluctuations of the needle  proved  the  house  was   nothing  less  than  a vestibule  for  pure  energy which if harnessed correctly could supply the world with  unlimited  power. See The Faraday Conclusion (Boston: Maxwell Press, 1996). Rosie O'Donnell, however, offered a different perspective when she wryly remarked  on Entertainment Tonight:  "The  fact that  Holloway  waited  that  long  to  use  a compass  only  goes to show how men-even explorers-still refuse to ask for directions."Luther Shepard's chapter entitled "The Compass School" in The Complete Feng Shui Guide for 'Ih&Navidson Record (New York: Barnes & Noble, 1996), p. 387.90 In light of this new development and in preparation  for Exploration #4, Tom makes several trips into town to purchase more fishing line, neon markers, and anything else that might serve to mark the team's path. Since Holloway's plan is to spend at least five nights inside,  Tom also  picks  up extra food and water. On one of these excursions, he even takes Daisy and Chad along. No Hi 8 records their trip but the way Chad and Daisy relate to their mother the details of their shopping spree reveals how fond they have become of their uncle.Unfortunately, Tom also has to buy a ticket back to Massachusetts.With the exception of a few weeks in July, he has not worked in over three months. As Tom explains to Karen and Navidson, "the  time's come  for me  to put ass in gear and get on with my life." He also tells them the time  has come for them to contact the media and find a new house.Originally Tom had intended to leave right after Exploration #3 but when Navidson begs him to stay through Exploration #4, he agrees.Reston also sticks around. He had briefly considered  taking  a leave of absence from the university but managed instead  to  somehow  arrange for a wee k off, despite the fact that it is late September and the fall semester has already begun. He and Tom both live at the house, Tom in the study, 103 Reston crashing on the pull-out in  the  living  room, while  Holloway,  Jed, and Wax-at least up until Exploration #4-stay at a local motel.From all the clips  leading  up  to  Exploration  #4,  we  can  see  how both Navidson and Holloway expect to gain a great  deal  of  fame  and fortune. Even if Holloway's team does not reach the bottom of the staircase, both men agree their story will guarantee them national attention as well as research grants and speaking opportunities. Holloway's company will more than likely thrive, to say nothing of the reputations of all those involved.This kind of talk, on the day before Exploration #4 is scheduled tostart, actually manages to bring Navidson and Holloway a little closer together. There is still a good deal of unspecified tension between them but Holloway warms to discussions of success, especially to the idea of, to use Navidson's words, "going down in history." Perhaps Holloway imagines himself joining Navidson's world, what  he  perceives as  a place for the esteemed, secure, and remembered. Nevertheless,  what  these  short  clips  do not show is the paranoia growing within him. As we are well  aware,  future events will ultimately  reveal  how  much  Holloway  feared  Navidson  would get rid of him and thus deprive him of the  recognition he  had a spent  a lifetime trying to obtain, the recognition the house seemed to promise.Of course, Karen will have nothing to do  with such talk. Uponhearing what the men are discussing, she angrily withdraws  to  the  periphery of the house. She clearly despises anything that might suggest  a  longer, more protracted relationship with the oddities of their home. Daisy, on the other hand, keeps close to Navidson, picking at tiny scabs on her wrists, always sitting on her father's shoulders or when that proves impossible on Tom's. Chad turns out to be the most  problematic.  He  spends  more  and more time outside by himself, and that afternoon returns home from school with a bruised eye and swollen nose.I03Neekisha Dedie's "The Study: Tom's Place" Diss. Boston University, 1996, examines the meaning of "study" when juxtaposed with the ritual of territory, sleep, and memory.91 Navidson breaks off his conversation with Holloway to find out what happened. Chad, however, refuses to speak.104half my tooth, and alot more too I guess, on the outskirts, in an ice covered place, surrounded by barbed wire and willows, where monuments of rust, seldom touched, lie frozen alongside fence posts and no one ever comes near enough to hear the hawks cry.93 Holloway, for his part, does not permit these domestic tensions and concomitant stresses to distract him from his preparations. The ever oblique Leon Robbins in attempting to adequately evaluate these efforts  has  gone  so far as to suggest that "Operation" would in fact be a far more  appropriate  word than "Exploration":Holloway in many ways resembles a consci- entious medical practitioner in pre-op. Take for example how meticulously he reviews his team's supplies the evening before-what I like to call-" Operation #4." He makes sure flashlights are all securely mounted on hel- mets and Hi 8s properly attached to chest harnesses. He personally checks, re-checks, packs, and re-packs  all  the  tents,  sleeping bags, thermal blankets, chemical heat packs, food, water,  and  First-Aid  kits.  Most  of  all, he confirms that they have ample amounts of neon markers, lightsticks  (12  hours),  ultra high intensity lightsticks  (5 minutes), spools of 4 lb test/ 3,100 yard monofilament fishing line, flares, extra flash lights, including a pumper light (hand  generator),  extra  batter- ies, extra parts for the radios, and  one  altime- ter (which like the compass will fail to function).105Robbins' medical analogy may be a little misguided, but his emphasis on Holloway's deliberate and careful planning reminds one of the technical demands required in this journey-whether an "Operation" or "Exploration."After all, spending a night in an enclosed lightless place is very uncommon, even in the world of caving. The Lechugilla Crystal  Cavern  in New Mexico is one exception. Typically Lech visits last twenty-four to thirty-six hours.106 Holloway,  however,  expects  to  take  at  least  four, possibly five nights exploring the Spiral Staircase.Despite the detailed preparations and Holloway's infectious determi- nation, everyone is still a little nervous.  Five  nights  is  a long  time  to  remain in freezing temperatures and complete darkness. No one  knows what  to expect.Though Wax puts his faith in Jed's unerring sense of direction, Jedadmits to some pre-exploration apprehensions: "How  can  I know  where  to go when I don't know where we are? I mean, really, where is that place in relation to here, to us, to everything? Where?"Holloway tries to make sure everyone stays  as  busy  as  bees,  and  in an effort to keep them focused, creates a simple set of priorities: "We' re taking pictures. We're collecting samples. We're trying to  reach  the  bottom of the stairs. Who knows, if we do that then maybe we'll even discover something before Navidson starts all the hoopla involved with raising105Leon Robbins' Operation #4: The Art of Internal Medicine (Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania, 1996), p. 479.106see "The Crystal Cavern" chapter in Michael Ray Taylor's Cave Passages (New York: Scribner, 1996).94 money and organizing large scale explorations." Jed and Wax both nod, unaware of the darker implications inherent in what Holloway has just uttered.As Gavin Young later writes: "Who could have predicted that those two words 'discover something' would prove the seeds to such unfortunate destruction? The problem, of course, was that the certain 'something' Holloway so adamantly sought to locate never existed per se in that place to begin with." 107Unlike Explorations #1 thru #3,  for  Exploration #4  Holloway decides to take along his rifle. When Navidson asks him "what the hell" he plans to shoot, Holloway replies: "Just in case."By this point, Navidson has settled on the belief that the  persistent growl is probably just a sound generated when the house alters its internal layout. Holloway, however, is not at all in accordance with this assessment. Furthermore, as he pointedly reminds Navidson,  he  is the  team  captain  and the one responsible for everyone's safety: "With all due respect, since  I'm also the one actually going in there, your notions don't  really  hold  much water with me." Wax and Jed do not object.  They  are  accustomed  to Holloway carrying some sort of firearm. The inclusion of the Weatherby hardly causes them any concern.Jed just shrugs.Wax though proves a little more fractious."I mean what if you're wrong?" he asks Navidson. "What if that sound's not from the wall's shifting but coming from something else, some kind of thing? You wanna leave us defenseless?"Navidson drops the subject.The question of weapons aside, another big point of concern  that comes up is communication. During Exploration #3 the team discovered just how quickly all their transmissions deteriorated. Without a cost effective way of rectifying the problem-obviously buying  thousands  of  feet  of audio cable would be impossible-Holloway settled the issue by simply announcing that they should just plan on losing radio  contact  by  the  first night. "After that, it'll be four to five days on our own. Not ideal but we'll manage."That evening, Holloway, Jed, and Wax move from their  motel  and camp out in the living room with Reston. Navidson  briefs  Holloway  for the last time on the most efficacious way to handle  the  cameras.  Jed  makes  a brief call to his fiancee in Seattle and then helps Reston organize the sample jars. Tom in an effort to cheer up  a  bruised  and  unnaturally  quiet  Chad winds up reading both him and Daisy a long bedtime story.Somehow Wax ends up alone with Karen. 1osIf Holloway's hand on Karen had upset Navidson, it is hard to imagine what his reaction would have been had he walked in on this particular moment. However when he finally did see the tape so much had happened, Navidson, by his own admission, felt nothing. "I'm surprised, I'¡7G avin Young, Shots In The Dark (Stanford: University of Califomfa Press, 1995), p. 151.I08Again Florencia Calzatti's The Fraying of the American Family proves full of valuable insight. Inparticular see "Chapter Seven: The Last Straw" where she  decries  the  absolute  absurdity  of  end-series items: "There is no such thing as the last straw. There is only hay."95 guess"  he says  in  The  Last  Interview.  "But  there's no  rage. Just regret. I actually laughed a little. I'd been watching Holloway all the time, feeling insecure by this guy's strength and courage and all that, and I  never  even thought about the kid.  (He  shakes  his  head.)    Anyway,  I betrayed  her  when I went in there the first time and so she betrayed me.  People  always  say how two people were meant  for each  other.  Well  we weren't but  somehow we ended up  together anyway  and  had  two  incredible  children.  It's  too  bad. I love her. I wish it didn't have to turn out like this."109The clip of Karen and Wax did not appear in the first release print ofThe Navidson Record but apparently was edited in a few months later. Miramax never commented on the inclusion nor did anyone else. It is a little strange Karen  did  not  erase  the  tape  in  the  wall  mounted  camcorder. Perhaps she forgot it was there or planned to destroy it  later.  Then again perhaps she wanted Navidson to see it.Regardless of her intentions, the shot  catches  Karen  and  Wax  alone in the kitchen. She picks at a bowl of popcorn, he helps  himself to another beer. Their conversation circles tediously around Wax's girlfriends, intermittently returning to his desire to get married someday.  Karen  keeps telling him that he is young, he should have fun, keep living, stop worrying  about settling down. For some reason both of them speak very softly.On the counter, someone has left a copy of the map Navidson drew following Exploration A Karen occasionally glances over at it."Did you do that?" she finally asks. "Nah, I can't draw.""Oh," she says, letting the syllable hang in the air like a question. Wax shrugs."I actually don't know who made it. I thought your old Navy man did." Based on the film, it is impossible for us to tell if Holloway, Jed, or Wax were ever explicitly told not to mention to Karen Navidson's illegal excursion. Wax, however, does not seem to recognize any trespass in his admission.Karen does not look at the map  again.  She  just  smiles  and  takes  a sip of Wax's beer. They continue talking, more about Wax's girl troubles, another round of "don't worry, keep living, you're young" and then out of nowhere Wax leans over and kisses Karen on the lips. It lasts less  than  a second and clearly shocks her, but when he leans  over  and  kisses  her  again she does not resist. In fact the kiss turns into something more than a  kiss, Karen's hunger almost exceeding Wax's. But when he knocks  over his  beer in an effort to get still closer, Karen pulls away, glances once at the  liquid spilling onto the floor and quickly  walks  out  of the  room.  Wax  starts  to follow her but realizes before he takes a second step that the game is already over. He cleans up the mess instead.A few months later Navidson saw the kiss.By that time Karen was gone along with everyone else. Nothing mattered.¥09see Exhibit Four for the complete transcript of The Last Interview.96 vmSOS ... A wireless code-signal summoning assistance in extreme distress, used esp. by ships at sea. The letters are arbitrarily chosen as being easy to transmit and distinguish. The signal was recommended at the Radio Telegraph Conference in 1906 and officially adopted at the Radio Telegraph Convention in 1908 (See  G. G. Blake Hist. Radio Telegr., 1926, II 1-12).- The Oxford English DictionaryBilly Reston glides into frame, paying no attention to the equipment which Navidson over the last few weeks has been setting up in the living room, including though not limited to, three monitors, two 3/4" decks, a VHS machine, a Quadra Mac, two Zip drives, an Epson colour printer, an old PC, at least six radio transmitters and receivers, heavy spools of electrical cord, video cable, one 16mm Aniflex, one 16mm Bolex, a Minolta Super 8, as well as additional flashlights, flares, rope, fishing line (anything from braided Dacron to 40 lb multi-strand steel), boxes of extra batteries, assorted tools, compasses  twitching  to  the  odd  polarities  in the house, and a broken megaphone, not to mention surrounding shelvesalready loaded with sample jars, graphs, books, and even an old microscope.Instead Reston concentrates all his energies on the radios, monitor- ing Holloway as he makes his way through the Great Hall. Exploration #4 is underway and will mark the team's second attempt to reach the bottom of the staircase."We hear you fine, Billy" Holloway replies in a wash of white noise. Reston tries to improve the signal. This time Holloway's voice comes in a little clearer."We're continuing down. Will try you again in fifteen minutes. Over and out."The obvious choice would have been to structure the segment around Holloway's journey but clearly nothing about Navidson is obvious. He keeps his camera trained on Billy who serves now as the expedition's base commander. In grainy 7298 (probably pushed one T-stop), Navidson captures this crippled man expertly maneuvering his wheelchair from radio to tape recorder to computer, his attention never wavering from the team's progress.97 By concentrating on Reston at the beginning of Exploration #4, Navidson provides a perfect counterpoint to the murky world Holloway navigates. Confining us to the comforts of a well-lit home gives our varied imaginations a chance to fill the adjacent darkness with  questions  and demons. It also further increases our identification  with  Navidson,  who  like us, wants nothing more than to penetrate  first  hand  the  mystery  of  that  place. Other directors might have intercut shots of the 'Base Camp' or 'Command Post' 110 with Holloway's tapes but Navidson refuses to view Exploration #4 in any other way except from Reston 's vantage point. As Frizell Clary writes, "Before personally permitting us the  sight  of  such species of Cimrnerian dark,  Navidson  wants  us  to  experience,  like  he already has, a sequence dedicated solely to  the  much  more  revealing  details of waiting."' 11Naguib Paredes, however, goes one step further than Clary, passing over questions concerning the structure of anticipation in favor of a slightly different, but perhaps more acute analysis of  Navidson's  strategy: "First and foremost, this restricted perspective subtly and  somewhat  cunningly allows Navidson to materialize his own feelings in Reston, a man with fearsome intelligence and energy but who is nonetheless-and tragically I might add-physically handicapped. Not by chance does Navidson shoot Reston's wheelchair in the photographic idiom of a prison: spokes for bars, seat like a cell, glimmering brake resembling some kind of lock. Thus in the manner of such images, Navidson can represent for us his own increasing frustration." 112As predicted, by the first night Holloway and the team start  to  lose radio contact. Navidson reacts by focusing on a family of copper-verdigris coffee cups taking up residence on the floor like settlers on the range while nearby a pile of sunflower seed shells rises out of  a bowl  like  a  volcano born on some unseen plate in the  Pacific. In  the  background,  the  ever- present hiss of the radios continues to fill the room like some high untouch-able wind. Considering the grand way these moments are photographed, it almost appears as if Navidson is trying through even the most  quotidian objects and events to evoke for us some sense of Holloway's epic progress. That or participate in it. Perhaps even challenge it. 1I3110There 's something weird going on here, as if Zarnpano can't quite make up his mind whether this is all an exploration (i.e.  'Base Camp')  or a war (i.e. 'Command Post')?1II Frizell Clary's Tick-Tock-Fade: The Representation of Time in Film Narrative (Delaware: Tame AnEssay Publications, 1996), p. 64.112Naguib Paredes' Cinematic Projections (Boston: Faber and Faber, 1995), p. 84.113Navidson's camera work is an infinitely complex topic. Edwin  Minamide in Objects of a ThousandFacets (Bismark, North Dakota: Shive Stuart Press, 1994), p. 421, asserts that such "resonant images," especially those in this instance, conjure up  what Holloway could never have achieved: "The fact  that  Navidson can photograph even the dirtiest blue mugs in a way  that  reminds  us  of  pilgrims  on   a quest  proves he is the necessary narrator without whom there would be no film;  no  understanding  of the  house." Yuriy Pleak in Semiotic Rivalry (Casper, Wyoming: Hazard United, I995), p. 105, disagrees, claiming Navidson's lush colors and steady pans  only  reveal  his  competitiveness  and  bitterness  toward  Holloway: "He seeks to eclipse the team's historical descent with his own limited  art."  Mace  Roger-Court,  however, finds In These Things I Find, Series #I 8 (Great Falls, Montana: Ash Otter Range Press, 1995) that Navidson's posture is highly instructive and even enlightening: "His lonely coffee cups, his volcanic bowl98 Time passes. There are long conversations, there are long silences. Sometimes Navidson and Tom play  Go.  Sometimes  one  reads  aloud  to Daisy 114 while the other assists Chad with some role-playing game on the family computer. 115  Periodically Tom goes outside to smoke a joint of marijuana while his brother jots  down  notes  in  some  now  lost  journal. Karen keeps clear of the living  room,  entering only  once  to  retrieve  the coffee cups and empty the bowl  of  sunfl  ower  seed  shells.  When  Navidson's camera finds her, she is usually on the phone  in  the  kitchen,  the TV volume on high, whispering to her mother, closing the door.But even as the days lose themselves in night and find themselvesagain come dawn only to drag on to yet  more  hours  of  lightless  passage, Billy  Reston  remains  vigilant.  As  Navidson  shows  us,  he  never  loses focus, rarely leaves his post, and constantly monitors the radios,  never forgetting the peril Holloway and the team are in.Janice Whitman was right when she noted another  extraordinary quality: "Aside from the natural force of his character,  his  exemplary  intellect, and the constant show of concern for those  participating  in Exploration #4, what I'm still most struck by is [Reston's] matter of fact treatment of this twisting labyrinth extending  into  nowhere. He  does  not seem confounded by its impossibility or at all paralyzed by doubt." 116 Belief is one of Reston' s greatest strengths. He has an almost animal like ability to accept the world as it comes to him.  Perhaps  one  overcast  morning in Hyderabad, India he had stood rooted to the  ground  for one  second  too long because he did not really  believe  an  electrical  pole  had  fallen  and  an ugly lash of death was now whipping toward him. Reston had  paid  a high price for that disbelief: he would never walk up stairs again  and  he  would never fuck. 117 At least he would also never doubt again.of shells, the maze like way equipment and furniture are arranged, all reveal how the  everyday  can  contain objects emblematic of what's lyrical and what's epic in our lives. Navidson shows us how  a sudden  sense of the world, of who or where we are or even what we do not have can be  found  in  even the  most  ordinary things."114Ascher Blootz in her pithy piece "Bedtime Stories" (Seattle Weekly, October 13, 1994, p. 37) claims thebook Tom reads to Daisy is Maurice Sendak's Where The Wild Things Are. Gene D. Hart in his letter entitled "A Blootz Bedtime Story" (Seattle Weekly, October 20, 1994, p. 7) disagrees: "After repeatedly viewing this sequence, frame by frame, I am still  unable  to  determine whether or  not  she's  right.  The  cover is constantly blocked by Tom's arm and his whisper consistently  evades  the  range  of the  microphone.  That said I'm quite fond of Blootz's claim, for whether she's right or wrong, she is certainly appropriate."115See Coming Qureshy's essay "D & D, Myst, and Other Future Paths" in MIND GAMES ed. MarioAceytuno (Rapid City, South Dakota: Fortson Press, 1996); M. Slade's "Pawns, Bishops & Castles" http://cdip.ucsd.edu/; as well as Lucy T. Wickramasinghe's "Apple  of Knowledge  vs.  Windows  of Light: The Macintosh-Microsoft Debate" in Gestures, v.2, November 1996, p. 164-171.116Janice Whitman's Red Cross Faith (Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1994), p. 235.117Though this chapter was originally typed, there were also a number of handwritten corrections. "make love" wasn't crossed out but "	Fuck you.	Fuck me. Fuck this.	Fuck.	Fuck.	Fuck.100  All the images Navidson finds during this period are  beautifully concise. Every angle he chooses describes the agony of the wait,  whether a shot of Tom sleeping on the couch, Reston listening more  and  more  intently to the nonsense corning over the radio, or Karen  watching  them  from  the foyer, for the first time smoking a cigarette inside the house. Even the occasional shot of Navidson himself, pacing around the living room, communicates the impatience he feels over being denied this extraordinary opportunity. He has done his best to keep from resenting Karen, but clearly feels it just the same. Not once are they shown talking  together.  For  that matter not once are they shown in the same frame together.Eventually the entire segment becomes a composition of strain.Jump cuts increase. People stop speaking to each  another.  A  single  shot never includes more than one  person.  Everything  seems  to  be  on  the  verge of breaking apart, whether between Navidson and Karen, the family  as  a whole, or even the expedition itself. On the seventh day  there  is  still  no  sign of the team. By the seventh night,  Reston  begins  to  fear  the  worst,  and then in the early A.M.  hours  of the  eighth  day  everyone  hears  the  worst.  The radio remains an incomprehensible buzz of static, but from somewhere in the house, rising up like some strange black oil, there comes a faint knocking. Chad and Daisy actually detect it first, but by the time  they  reach their parent's bedroom, Karen is already up with  the  light  on,  listening intently to this new disturbance.It sounds exactly like someone rapping his knuckles against thewall: three quick knocks followed by three slow knocks, followed by  three more quick knocks. Over and over again.Despite a rapid search of the upstairs and downstairs, no  one  can locate the source,  even  though  every  room  resonates  with  the  distress signal. Then Tom presses his ear against the living room wall."Bro', don't ask me how, but it's corning  from  in  there.  In  fact,  for a second it sounded like it was right on the other side."ááá---¥¥áIronically enough, it is the call for assistance that eliminates the jump cuts and reintegrates everyone again into  a  single  frame.  Navidson  has finally been granted the opportunity he has been waiting for all along. Consequently, with Navidson  suddenly  in  charge  now,  declaring  his  intent to lead a rescue attempt, the sequence immediately starts to resolve with the elimination of visual tensions. Karen, however, is  furious.  "Why  don't  we just call the police?"  she  demands.  "Why  does  it  have  to  be  the  great Will Navidson who goes to the rescue?" Her question is a good one, but unfortunately it only has  one  answer:  because  he  is the great Will Navidson.Considering the circumstances, it does seem a little ludicrous  for Karen to expect a man who has thrived his whole life under shell fire andnapalm to turn his back on Holloway and go drink lemonade on the porch. Furthermore, as Navidson points out, "They've been in there  almost  eight days with water for six. It's three in the morning. We don't have time to get officials involved or a search party organized. We have to go now." Then101 adding in a half-mumble:" I waited too long with Delial. I'm not  going  to  do it again."The name "Delia!" and its adamantine mystery stops Karen cold. Without saying another word, she sits down on the couch and waits for Navidson to finish organizing all the equipment they will need.It talces only thirty minutes to assemble the necessary supplies. The hope is that they will locate Holloway's team nearby. If not, the plan is for Reston to go as far as the stairway where he will establish a camp andhandle the radios, serving as a relay between the living room command  post and Navidson and Tom who will continue on down the stairs. As far as photographic equipment is concerned, everyone wears a Hi 8 in a chest harness. (Short two cameras, Navidson has to talce down one of the wall mounted Hi 8s from his study and another one from  the  upstairs  hall.)  He also brings his 35mm Nikon equipped with  a powerful  Metz  strobe,  as  well as the 16mm Arri.flex, which Reston volunteers to carry in his lap. Karen unhappily talces over the task of manning the radios. A Hi 8 captures her sittni  g in the  living  room,  watching  the  men  fade  into  the  darkness  of the hallway. There are in fact three quick  shots  of her,  the  last two  as  she calls her mother to report Navidson's departure as well  as  his  mention  of Delial. At first the phone is busy, then it rings.Navidson names this sequence SOS which  aside  from  referring  to the distress signal sent by Holloway's team  also  informs  another aspect of the work. At the same time he was mapping out the personal and domestic tensions escalating in the house, Navidson was also editing the footage in accordance to a very specific cadence. Tasha K. Wheelston was the first to discover this carefully created structure:At first I thought I was seeing things but after I watched SOS more care- fully I realized it was true: Navidson had not just  filmed  the  distress  call, he had literally incorporated it into the sequence. Observe how Navidson alternates between three shots with  short durations and three shots with longer  durations.  He  begins  with three quick angles of Reston,  fol- lowed by three  long  shots  of  the living room (and these are in fact just that - long shots talcen from thefoyer), followed again by three short shots and so  on.  Content  has  on  a few occasions interfered with the rhythm but the pattern of three-short three-long three-short is unrnistak- able.11s118Tasha K. Wheelston's "M.O.S.: Literal Distress," Film Quarterly, v. 48, faJI 1994, p. 2-11.102 Thus while representing the emergency signal sent by Holloway's team, Navidson also uses the dissonance implicit in his home-bound wait-the impatience,  frustration,  and  increasing  familial  alienation-to  figuratively and now literally send out his own cry for help.The irony comes when we realize that Navidson fashioned this piece long after the Holloway disaster occurred but before he made his last plunge into that place. In other words his SOS is entirely without hope.  It  either  comes  too  late  or  too  early.  Navidson,  however,  knew  what  he  was  doing. It is not by accident that the last two short shots of SOS show Karen on the phone, thus providing an acoustic message hidden within the already established visual one: three busy signals, three rings.In other words:108 ICHaving already discussed in Chapter V how echoes serve as an effective means to evaluate physical, emotional, and thematic  distances  present  in The Navidson Record, it is now necessary to remark upon their descriptive limitations. In essence echoes are  confined  to  large  spac s.  However,  in order to consider how distances within the Navidson house are radically distorted, we must address the more complex ideation of convolution, interference, confusion, and even decentric ideas of design and construc- tion. In other words the concept of a labyrinth.It would be fantastic if based on footage from The Navidson Record someone were able to reconstruct a bauplan JLfor the house.  Of course this is an impossibility, not only due to the wall-shifts but also the  film's  con- stant destruction of continuity, frequent jump cuts prohibiting any sort of accurate mapmaking. Consequently, in lieu of a schematic, the film offers instead a schismatic rendering of empty rooms, long hallways,  and  dead ends, perpetually promising but forever  eluding  the  finality of  an immutable layout.Curiously enough, if we can look to history to provide us with some context, the reasons for building labyrinths have varied  substantially  over the ages.122 For example, the English hedgerow maze at Longleat  was designed to amuse garden party attendants, while Amenemhet  III  of  the XII dynasty in Egypt built for his mortuary temple a labyrinth near lake Moeris to protect his soul. Most famo1:1s of all, howe>,<cr, was the labyrinth Daedal1:1s constructed for King Minos. It ser´ed asa prison. P1:1rportcdly located on the isla.Hd of Crete in the city of Knossos, the maze was b1:1ilt to 110 However, even as Holloway Roberts, Jed Leeder, and  Wax  Hook make their way further down the stairway in Exploration #4, the purpose of that vast place still continues to elude them. Is it merely an aberration of physics? Some kind of warp in space? Or just a topiary  labyrinth  on  a much grander scale? Perhaps it serves a funereal purpose?  Conceals  a secret? Protects something? Imprisons or hides some kind of monster?  Or, for that matter, imprisons or hides an innocent?  As  the  Holloway  team soon discovers, answers to these questions are not exactly forthcoming.129er,ceunterecl Mi111 (as Chieli12 refers le the Mi1ie1aurj and RC!lrl)á R1tm:lercd him. I lad Mi1ies himselfnet nislictl in ,11id lcillecl the eri1fli1rnl. his se11 ,,euld huve perished.   !Suffice    it le s11y Mines is ftll'iet1s. I le lius etrnglH hill'lsclr et1ri1,g ferhis sefl tind llie resulting g11ill uFtd seFFe.;i11ecnses him te 1ie c1id.	As the i:,lny i:,regFesses.  the Icing slewI) sees pRSL his sen',tlefermitics.  e einuall)á  diseeá,eri11 b un elegiac spirit, 111i 11nistie se1ni1t1e1il aFta niosl i1Hper1tmtly 11Yisie1ittr) tmderJurndi1ig ef tlie werla. Seen 11dee!') i:,111enrnl lo;e grews iii the Kin1,áJhetin t111cl lieecgi1is le ee11cei1ác ef11 .Ht) le rein!Feauce the M i1iet 1u r back inle seeiety.	Sue!). tile steries the King lrns Sl')read tliret1ghe111 the . .arid eeHecrni11g this ler rifying eettst pre,e the seeds ef tnigedy. Seen e11eugh. a ertti,er tittmecl Theseus ttrrhcs (Chiclit:z cleseribes hi1ii tts a d n1Akcn,virluflll)á returdecl, frttt eC))whe wi1heu1 u eee11El tlieughl lmelEs the Mi1rnlaur iAte lillle l')ieees.	Iii etje ef the pli:1y's1flest me,ái1j.;,see1ieJ.KitigMi1ies, ..ith 1e11rs slrea1iiing aeYIA his Ftiee. publiely ee1iitiie1 1ds Tlieseusá eetirage. Tlje ere,,d belie1áes the ICtlFS arefl:,ig1  ef i;rntilucle  ..-hile  ,..e  the t1uaie1iee 11nderstt11id the) are tears ef less. The IEiAg', liearl eret1ks.unEl wliilc he "illge en le ee ttn extremel'.d t1strttler. i1 isa justiee fore <'er iiifanflea e;á tlie deepestkinEl ef nge1irNote:	Struck passages indicate what Zampano tried to get rid of, but which I, with a little bit of turpentine and a good old magnifying glass managed to resurrect.124--vieleiu Prejutliee in K11esses"' e;á ZttA1p1rne in SenR)" 'Nill Wttit Flyer. Sa1llc Cm,:. 1969_ 125l25r've no idea why these titles and cited sources are different.	It seems much too deliberate to be an error, but since I haven't been able to find the ¥flyer¥ I don't know for certain.	I did call Ashley back, left message, even though I still don't remember her.126Tl:t.á  M.'110wmá   b;á  '.fuggert  Cl;ielile, l')tll e111H  The Hey Zeus Theu1er br Tlie Settttle  R:el')erwry Coll'lpt111;á 011 April 14. 1972.127\ll. H. Mttllkews wri1es "A similars!l'lall ltte;Ti1Hli. witha ee1mal Thesct1s MiAotaur design. is te  ee fa,intl 01; the wall of the elrnreh of SanMieliele Mt1ggiere ttl P0¥;i11. It is 1heuglH te ee of teAlkee1m1Fy eeFtstruetien. This is e11e ef the few eases á,,here !lie Mi1ie1uur is reprcseAleEl with a humuA liettd  !lijdt1 beast'seocl; asu sertef Ccntuur, i11 foet." See his beak .\f.<.:e.1á & L,1hy,ái...¥,há Their !fisw,y& Dc."e,'tfimc.w (J>lew Yerlc: Do¥,er PublieEllie11s. hie.. 1970), p. 56. Alse see i;ig. 40 e, p. 53.128Evell in ,\h11111101á1i,¥osc.,   O áid 11eles liew Mines. iA liis elcl age. t:curecl yeung 1nen.Q,,i.  11,mji,i:   i,11,;:;c,   ttcii.  lt,111t1,.t  ,im;i;11u  .¥ ,ji,,(!  i'/hell)tit   11tmti1r, gc/f/tJ,  //lilt UM ,á1 1,uHu?1.1. De iiJ111ácknqtrc	iti,c,Ji'oc , uhtJ1c   Afilcrwn  111/,vtboqt,t   pe11e,11c   supu ht m  l  ,,c, tiHu,i't.  c, cdcH .ftJliC..t.i., i11.r11r;,;c1, 1tglfl\ hutil 111111t11u11ic.11 ii.r '" cuc 1iu1tdibu.i tlldtiJ.f'l,1/heA Mines was in gelden 1niddle uge/ All n111ions fe!lred Ike mcntien ef hisARn1e.f Btll new he'd ,;rewn se imtJOle11t.  se  feeele/    le  sliicd nwuy  fre1tt  i:,reud  yetmg Milettts..'  '.fhe feF1¥,arcl so,1 cf Pheeeus anEl Deienc:/ Theugh Mines hulf s11speetea M ilc1t1sl I-Ina e)áes ttper. his 1hre1ie u11cl t=rnniecl  1:1!')le!/ 'Fa 1iial,c 11 pEtluee   re,áelt1lien.  he fe11recl    le act,/T o sign ll;e  i:,t1pers    for his dei:,erlt1tie1i.  áá1lerBee Greger;á  p.  258 259.)Perliu13s Milelus re1flillcled Mi1ies ofhis slui,i se11a11d eut ef gttilt lje ee,,ered in !lie i:,rese1iee et= his )'Eltilh. 129Strictly  as an aside,  Jacques  Derrida once made a few  remarks  on  the  question of structure and centrality.111 It is too complex to adequately address here; for some, however, this mention alone may prove useful when considering the meaning of 'play', 'origins', and 'ends'-especially when applied to the Navidson house:Ce centre avail pour fonction non seulement d'orienter et d'equilibrer, d'organiser la structure-on ne peut en elfet penser une structure inorganisee-mais de faire surtout que le principe d'organisation de la structure limite ce que nous pourrions appeler le jeu 131 de la structure. Sans doute le centre d'une structure, en ori- entant et en organisant la coherence du systeme, per- met-ii le jeu des elements a l'interieur de la forme totale. Et aujourd'hui encore une structure privee de tout centre repesente l'impensable lui-meme. And later on: C'est pourquoi, pour une pensee classique de la struc- ture, le centre peut etre dit, paradoxalement, dans la structure et hors de la structure. ll est au centre de la totalite et pourtant, puisque le centre ne lui appartient pas, la totalite a son centre ai/leurs. Le centre n'est pas le centre.130 See Derrida's L'ecriture et la difference (Paris: Editions du Seuil, 1967), p. 409-410. 130ffere' s the English.	The best I can do:The function  of  [a] center  was  not  only to orient, balance, and organize the structure-one cannot in fact conceive of an unorganized structure-but above all to make sure that the organizing principle of the structure would limit what we might call the play of the structure.	By orienting and organizing the coherence of the system, the center of a structure permits the play of its elements  inside the total form.	And even today the notion of a structure lacking any center represents the unthinkable itself.  And later on:  This is why classical thought concerning structure could say that the center is, paradoxically, within the structure and outside it.		The center is at the  center of the totality, and yet, since the center does not belong to the totality  (is not part of the totality), the totality has its center elsewhere.	The center is not the center.131 Something like that. From Jacques Derrida's ¥structure, Sign,  and Play in the Discourse of the Human Sciences¥ in Writin g an d Difference translated by Alan Bass. Chicago. University of Chicago Press. 1978. p. 278-279.131Conversely Christian Norberg-Schulz writes:112 Penelope Reed Doob avoids the tangled discussion of purpose by cleverly drawing a distinction between those who walk within a labyrinth and those who stand outside of it:[M]aze-treaders, whose v1s10n ahead and behind is severely constricted and fragmented, suffer confusion, whereas maze-viewers who see the pattern whole, from above or in a diagram, are dazzled by its complex artistry. What you see depends on where you stand, and thus, at one and the same time, labyrinths are single (there is one phys- ical structure) and double: they simul-In terms of spontaneous perception, man's space is 'subjec- tively centered.' The development of schemata,  however, does not only mean that  the  notion  of centre  is  established as a means of general organization, but that certain  centres are 'externalized' as points of reference in the environment. This need is so strong that man since remote times has thought of the whole world as being centralized. In many legends the 'centre of the world' is concretized as a tree or a pillar symbolizing a vertical axis mundi. Mountains were also looked upon as points where sky and earth meet. The ancient Greeks placed the  'navel'  of the  world (omphalos) in Delphi, while the Romans considered  their  Capitol as caput mundi. For Islam ka'aba is still the centre of the world. Eliade points out that in most beliefs  it  is  difficult  to  reach the centre. It is an  ideal  goal, which  one can only attain after a 'hard journey.' To 'reach the centre is to achieve a conse- cration, an initiation. To  the  profane  and  illusory  existence of yesterday, there succeeds a new existence,  real,  lasting and powerful.' But Eliade also points out that  'every  life, even the  least eventful, can  be  taken as the journey  through a labyrinth.'132See Christian Norberg-Schulz's Existence, Space &Architecture (New York: Praeger Publishers, 1971 ), p. 18 in which he quotes from Mircea Eliade's Palterns in Comparative Religion, trans. R. Sheed (London: Sheed and Ward, 1958), p. 380-382.132What Derrida and Norberg-Schulz neglect to consider is the ordering will of gravitation or how betweenany two particles of matter exists an  attractive  force  (this relationship usually represented  as G with a value of 6.670 X 10-11 N-m2 / kg2). Gravity, as opposed to gravitation, applies specifically to the earth's effect  on other bodies and has had as much to say about humanity's sense of centre as Derrida and Norberg-Schulz. Gravity informs words like 'balance', 'above', 'below', and even 'rest'. Thanks to the slight waver of endolymph on the  ampullary crest in  the  semicircular duct or the  rise and  fall of cilia on  maculae in  the  utri- cle and saccule, gravity speaks a language comprehensible long before the  words describing it  are ever  spo- ken or learned. Albert Einstein's work on this matter is also worth  studying,  though it  is  important  not  to forget how Navidson's house ultimately confounds even the labyrinth of the inner ear.133133This gets at a Lissitzky and Escher theme which Zampan seems toconstantly suggest without ever really bringing right out into the open.	At least that's how it strikes me.	Pages 30, 356 and 441, however, kind of contradict this.	Though not really.113 taneously incorporate order and dis- order, clarity and confusion, unity and multiplicity, artistry and chaos. They may be perceived as a path  (a  linear but circuitous passage to a goal)  or as a pattern (a complete symmetrical design) . . . Our perception of labyrinths is thus intrinsically unsta- ble: change your perspective and the labyrinth seems to change.'"'Unfortunately the dichotomy between those who participate  inside  and those who view from the outside breaks down when considering the house, simply because no one ever sees that labyrinth in its entirety. Therefore comprehension of its intricacies must always be derived from within.This not only applies to the house but to the film itself.  From  the outset of The Navidson Record, we are involved in a labyrinth, meandering from one celluloid cell to the next, trying to peek around  the next  edit in hopes of finding a solution, a centre, a sense of whole, only to discover another sequence, leading in a completely different direction, a continually devolving discourse, promising the possibility of discovery while all along dissolving into chaotic ambiguities too blurry to ever completely compre- hend.1 35In order to fully appreciate the way  the ambages unwind,  twist only to rewind, and then open up again, whether in Navidson's house or the tilm-quae itinerum ambages occursusque ac recursus inexplicabiles 136-we should look to the etymological inheritance of a word like 'labyrinth'. The Latin labor is akin to the root labi meaning to slip or slide backwards l 37 though the commonly perceived meaning suggests difficulty and work. Implicit in 'labyrinth' is a required effort to keep from slipping or falling; in other words stopping. We cannot relax within those walls, we have to strug- gle past them. Hugh of Saint Victor has gone so far as to suggest that the antithesis of labyrinth-that which contains work-is Noah's ark1 38-  in other words that which contains rest.x134Penelope Reed Doob, The Idea OJ The Labyrinth: from Classical Antiquity through the Middle Ages(Ithaca: Cornell University Press, 1990), p.1 xl3 5At least, as Daniel Horlz lamented, "By granting all involved the right to wander (e.g. daydream, free associate, phantasize [sic] etc., etc.; see Gaston Bachelard ) that which is discursive will inevitably re-appro- priate the heterogeneity of the disparate and thus with such an unanticipated and  unreconciled  gesture  bring about a re-assessment of self." Or in ether ,á,erds, lile the hettse, the!ilmitself et1i,lt1res tts tmd i,rnl,ibi!J tis ti! the same time ns it ftees 1:13;te wnnder, aAd se !irnt fflislettds tts, ine\ilnbly, ar11,;i1ig 1:1sfrefll the us, lht1s. eflly iA the ena te lend t1S, Aeeessnrily, !or where else eettld á,re ha,e really geRe?, 'et1elt agaifl le tlie ust11id Ae1,ee 'eoelc te ettrsel¥;es. See Daniel Hortz's Understanding The Self: The Maze of You (Boston: Garden Press, 1995), p. 261.129l36("Passages that wind, advance and retreat in a bewilderingly lntrtcate manner." - Ed.)Pliny also wrote when describing the Egyptian maze: "sed crebisforibus inditis adJallendos occursus redeun- dumque in errores eosdem." ["Doors are let into the walls at frequent tntervals to suggest decep- tively the way ahead and to force the visitor to go back upon  the  very same tracks that he has already followed 1n his wanderings."-Ed.] K137Labi is also probably cognate with "sleep." 134138See Chapter Six, footnote 82, Tom's Story as well as footnote 249. - Ed.114 If the work demanded by any labyrinth means penetrating or escap- ing it, the question of process becomes  extremely  relevant.  For  instance, one way out of any maze is to simply keep one hand on a wall and  walk in  one direction. Eventually the exit will be found. Unfortunately, where the house is concerned, this approach would  probably  require  an  infinite amount of time and resources. It cannot  be  forgotten  that  the  problem posed by exhaustion-a result of labor-is an inextricable part of any encounter with a sophisticated maze. In order to escape then, we have to remember we cannot ponder all paths but must decode  only  those  neces- sary to get out. We must be quick and anything but  exhaustive.  Yet,  as Seneca warned in his Epistulae morales 44, going too fast also incurs certain risks:Quod evenit in /abyrintho properantibus: ipsa il/os velocitas inplicat. 139Unfortunately, the anfractuosity of some labyrinths may actually prohibit a permanent solution. More confounding still, its complexity may exceed the imagination of even the designer.140 Therefore anyone lost within must recognize that no one, not even a god or an Other, comprehends  the entire maze and so therefore can never offer a definitive answer. Navidson's house seems a perfect example. Due to the  wall-shifts  and  extraordinary size, any way out remains singular and  applicable only to those on  that path at that particular time. All solutions then are necessarily personal.141Up in the sky-high, Off to the side-eye, All of us now sigh,Right down the drain-ae. Just a ditty.	I guess.117 As with previous explorations, Exploration #4 can also be consid- ered a personal journey. While some portions of the house, like the Great Hall for instance, seem to offer a communal experience, many inter-com- municating passageways encountered by individual members, even with only a glance, will never be re-encountered by anyone else again.  Therefore, in spite of, as well as in light of, future investigations, Holloway's descent remains singular.When his team finally does reach the bottom of the stairway, theyhave already spent three nights in that hideous darkness, their sleeping bags and tents successfully insulating their bodies from the cold, but nothing protecting their hearts from what Jed refers to as "the heaviness" which always seemed to him to be crouching, ready to spring, just a few feet away. While everyone enjoys some sense of elation upon reaching the last step, in truth they have only brought to a conclusion an already experienced aspect of the house. None of them are at all prepared for the consequences of the now unfamiliar.On the morning of the fourth day, the three men agree to explore a new  series  of rooms.  As  Holloway says,  "We've come a long way.  Let's see if there's anything down here." Wax and Jed do not object, and soon enough, they are all wending their way through the maze.As usual, Holloway orders numerous stops to procure wall samples. Jed has become quite handy with his chisel and hammer, cutting out small amounts of the black-ashen substance which he deposits into one of the many sample jars Reston equipped him with. As had been the case even on the stairway, Holloway personally takes responsibility for marking their path. He constantly tacks neon arrows to the wall, sprays neon paint on corners, and metes out plenty of fishing line wherever the path becomes118 especially complicated and twisted.a farther Holloway goes the more infre- Oddly enough, however, the quently he stops to take samples or Seneca's words.Jed is the first to voice some concern over how quickly  their team leader is moving: "You know where you're going,  Holloway?" But Holloway just scowls and keeps pushing  forward,  in what  appears to be a determined effort to find something, something different, something defining, or at least some kind of indication of an  outside- ness to that place. At one point Holloway even succeeds in scratch- ing, stabbing, and ultimately kick- ing a hole in a wall, only to discover another windowless room with a doorway   leading   to   another  hall-way  spawning  yet  another  endless mark their path. Obviously deaf toNot only are there no hot-air registers, etum air vents, or radiators, cast iron o ther, or cooling systems-condenser, eheat coils, heating convector, damper, oncentrator,	dilute	solution,	hea xchanger, absorber, evaporator, solutio ump, evaporator recirculating pump---o ny type of ducts, whether  spiral lock earn/standing   rib   design,  double-wal uct, and  Lolossª     Tee,  flat oval, or roun uct with perforated inner liner, insulation nd outer shell; no HVAC system at  all, ven a crude air distribution system-there no windows-no water supplies, series of empty rooms and passageways, all with walls potentially  hiding and  thus hinting at a possible exterior,  though invariably winding  up  as justanother  border to  another interior.  As Gerard  Eysenck famously described it: "Insides and in-ness never inside out."143This desire for exteriority is no doubt further amplified  by  the uttera reason to linger.  In part blankness found within. Nothing there providesbecause not one object, let alone fixture or other manner of finish work has ever been discovered there.1 44 Back in 1771, Sir Joshua Reynolds in his Dis- courses On Art argued against the importance of the particular, calling into question,  for example,  "minute attention to the discriminations  of Drapery... the cloathing is neither Woollen, nor linen, nor silk, sattin or velvet: it is drapery: it is nothing more."145 Such global appraisal seems perfectly suited for Navidson's house which despite its corridors and  rooms of various sizes is   nothing  more   than  corridors  and   rooms,  even   if  sometimes,   as JohnUpdike once  observed  in  the course  of translating the labyrinth:  "The gal- leries seem straight but curve furtively."Of course rooms, corridors, and the occasional spiral staircase are In some cases particular themselves subject to patterns of arrangement.patterns. However, considering the constant shifts, the seemingly endless 0Aside from the practical aspect of fishing line-a readily available and cheap way to map progress through that complicated maze-there are of course obvious mythological resonances. MiAes' clauglHer. .<\rimh1e. tillf.lJ3licl The,,em, wi1li a 1hree1d whieh he usad w eJettpe 1lu lab rii,th. Thread has repeatedly served as a metaphor for an umbilical cord, for life, and for destiny. The Greek Fates (called Moerae) or  the  Roman Fates (called Fata or Parcae) spun the thread of life and also cut it off. Curiously in Orphic cults, thread sym- bolized semen.143G erard Eysenck's "Break Through (not a) Breakthrough: Heuristic Hallways In The Holloway Venture." Proceedings from The Navidson Record Semiotic Conference Te111atively Entitled Three Blind Mice and the Rest As Well. American Federation of Architects. June 8, 1993. Reprinted in Fisker and Weinberg, 1996.5Se Joshua Reynolds' Discourses on Art (1771) (New York: Collier, 1961).119 146For example, there is not hing about the house that even remotely resembles 20t h cent ury works whether in the style of Post-Modem, Lale-Modem, Brutalism, Nee-Expressionism, Wrightian, The New Formalism, red e fi nt' há on Of route, even t h e a b SUrd way t h. e first h a 11- Miesian. th e International Style, Streamline Modeme, Art Deco, the Pueblo Style, the Spanish Colonial, lO way leads away from the living room only to return,  name but  a few, with examples such as the Western	through a  series of  lefts, back to where the living room Savings and Loan Association in Superstit ion, Ari-	should be but clearly is not; describes a layout in no way zona,  Animal Crackers in  Highland Park, Illinois.	reminiscent of any modern floorplans let alone historical Pacific  Design  Center in  Los Angeles. or Mineries	experiments in design.146  Condominium in Venice, Wurster Hall in Be_rk_eley, _______  Sebastiano Perouse de Mont-  Katselas House in Pittsburgh,---. --.  ...,  ...,.. Dulles lntemat ional Airport, 1,Z1:1Wg:11 1uHod on :11:,rh :,1.s '(loo Joli1Jl,l> 1 clos, however, has written a sizable Greene House in Norman  o 001i 12.60 ,2101.sib.&1 10 ,2Jn:,v 1i.s rnuJ:,1 examination on the changes within Oklahoma,  Chicago   Harold  1:,2n:,bno:>-2m:,J2'(2   goilooo   10   ,1:,d10 the house, positing that they in fact Washingt?n Library, th e Waus 1:iqm.sb ,1010:,vooo gniJs:,d ,zlioo ls:,d:,1 follow Andrea Palladio's structural  Towers  10       5?uth    Central,  .s:,d ¥	noilulo2	!IWlib ¥	10Js1JO!IOOOO derivations.  Barcelona National Theatre,	.New Town of Seaside Florida, J!Otlulo2 ,10l610Q6V!I ,1:1cho2ds ,1:,gosdox:,	By way of a quick summary,  Tugendhat House, Rue de o-qmuq gnilsluo1io:,1 101s1oqsv:, ,qmuq Palladian grammar seeks to organize Laeken in Brussels. Richmond llool l.s1iq2 1:,dJ:,dw ,21oub 1o !IQ'(1 '(06 space through a series of strict rules. Riverside in Richmond Surrey,  l.sw-:ilduob  ,ngi2:,b  dn  gnibn.s12\ms,2 As Palladio proved, it was possible to thestaircasehallinlheAthens, bOUOllO lsvoJsfl :,:,TMT22ol0Jbns Joub use his system to generate a number  Georgia News Building, the 001.!.G1U20'.l ,1:,má1 1:,'nm. b5!61011:lq d. lláW' IOUb   Of  Iayou t S  SUCh  as  vá111a   B a d Oer,  vá111a Tsukuba Center Building in rbaraki, t he Digital House, ,Ifs ls m!:112'(2 :::>AVH on ;ll,d2 1!lluo bns Emo, Villa Ragona, Villa Poiana, and  Hiroshima Ci ty Museum of :,1:,dJ-m:,J2'(2 noi1udi112ib 1is !lbu10 s n!IV!I of course Villa Zeno. In essence there Contemporary  Ari,  t he  iot eá  .z:,ilqqu2  1:ll6W oo-2woboiw  00	!116 are only eight steps:  rior of the Judge Institute of . _ ______ Management Studies in Cam-bridge, Maison a Bordeaux, TGV Railway Station in Lyon-Satolas. the post-modernism of th e Wexner Center for Visual Ans in Columbus, Oh io, Palazzo Hot el in Fukuoka. Na1ional Geographic Societ y in Washington, D.C., the Amon Carter Museum in Fort Wort h, Texas, Sainsbury Wing of the Nat ional Gallery, Pyramid at the Louvre, New Building at Staatsgalerie Stuttgart, J. Paul Getty Museum in Mal- ibu, Palace of Abraxas at Mame-La-Vallee, Piazza d'ltalie in New Orleans. AT&T Building in New York, th e modernism of Carre d'Art, Lloyds Building in London, the Boston John F. Kennedy Library com- plex, Nave of Vuokseeniska Church in Finland, head office of the Enso-Gutzeit Company, Administ rative Center of Sayniitsalo, the Eames House, the Baker dormitory at MIT, inside the TWA terminal at Kennedy Airport, Th e Nat ional Theatre in London, Hull House Association Uptown Center in Ch icago, Hektoen Laboratory also in Chicago, Fitzpatri.ck House in lhe Hollywood HiUs, Graduate Center at Harvard University, Pan-Pacific Auditorium in Los Angeles, General Molors Test ing Laboratory in Phoenix Arizona, Bullock's Wilshire Department Store in Los Angeles. Casino Building in New York, Hotel Franciscan in Albuquerque New Mexico, La Fonda Hotel in Santa Fe, or Santa Barbara County Courthouse, the Neff or Sherwood House in Califor- nia, Exterior of the Secondary Modem Sch ool, Maisons Jaoul, Notre-Dame-du-Haut near Belfort, The Unite d'Habitation in Marseilles, The Farnsworth House in Plano, Ulinois, The Alumni Memorial Hall at Illinois Institute of Tech nology, Guggenheim Museum in New York, or nothing of the traditional- ism of Lawn Road Flats in Hampstead, the Zimbabwe House and Bat tersea Power Station in London, Choir of the Angelican cathedral in Liverpool or Memorial lo the Missing of the Somme near Aras, Viceroy's house in New Del h i. Gledstone Hall in Yorkshire. Finsbury Circus facade, Castle Drogo near Drew- steignton Devon, Casa de! Fascio in Como, Villa _______	_. .,... I.	Grid definition 2.	Exterior-wall definition 3.	Room layout 4.	Interior-wall realignment 5.	Principal entrances-porticos and exterior wall inflections 6.	Exterior ornamentation-columns 7.	Windows and Doors 8.	Terminationl49 Perouse de Montclos relies on these steps to delineate how Navidson's house was (1.0) first established (2.0) limited (3.0) sub-divided and (4.0) so on. He attempts to convince the reader that the constant refiguration of doorways and walls represents a kind of geological loop in the process of working out all possible forms, most likely ad infinitum, but never settling because, as he states in his conclusion, "unoccupied space will never cease to change simply because nothing forbids it to do so. The continuous internal alterations only prove that such a house is necessarily uninhabited."150 149For an exemplary look at Palladian grammar in action, see William J. Mitchell's The Logic of Architecture: Design, Computation, and Cognition (Cambridge, Massachusetts: The MIT Press, 1994), p. 152-181. As well as Andrea Palladio's The Four Books of Architecture (1570) trans. Isaac Ware (New York: Dover, 1965).150Sebastiano Perouse de Montclos' Palladian Grammar and Metaphysical Appropriations: Navidson's Villa Mafcontenta (Englewood Cliffs: Prentice- Hall, 1996), p. 2,865. Also see Aristides Quine's Concatenating Corbusier120