I still get nightmares.	In fact I get them so often I should be used to them by now.	I'm not.	No one ever really gets used to nightmares.For a while there I tried every pill imaginable. Anything to curb the fear.	Excedrin PMs, Melatonin, L-tryptophan, Valium, Vicodin, quite a few members of the barbital family.	A pretty extensive list, frequently mixed, often matched, with shots of bourbon, a few lung rasping bong hits, sometimes even the vaporous confidence-trip of cocaine.	None of ithelped.	I think it's pretty safe to assume there's nolab sophisticated enough yet to synthesize the kind of chemicals I need.	A Nobel Prize to the one who invents that puppy.I'm so tired.		Sleep's been stalking me for too long to remember.	Inevitable I suppose.	Sadly though, IÕm not looking forward to the prospect.		I say "sadly" because there was a time when I actually enjoyed sleeping.	In fact I slept all the time.		That was before my friend Lude woke me up at three in the morning and asked me to come over to his place.	Who knows, if I hadn't heard the phone ring, would everything be different now?	I think about that alot.Actually, Lude had told me about the old man a month or so before that  fateful evening.	(Is that right?	fate?	It sure as hell wasn't -ful.	Or was it exactly that?)		I'd been in the throes of  looking for an apartment after a little difficulty with a landlord who woke up one morning convinced he was Charles de Gaulle.		I was so stunned by this announcement that before I could think twice I'd already told him how in my humble estimation he did not at all resemble an airport though the thought of a 757 landing on him was not at all disagreeable.	I was promptly evicted.	I could have put up a fight but the place was a nuthouse anyway and I was glad to leave.	As it turned out Chuckie de Gaulle burnt the place to the ground a week later.	Told the police a 757 had crashed into it.During the following weeks, while I was couchingit from Santa Monica to Silverlake looking for an apartment, Lude told me about this old guy who lived in his building.	He had a first floor apartment peering out over a wide, overgrown courtyard. Supposedly, the old man had told Lude he would be dying soon.	I didn't think much of it, though it wasn't exactly the kind of  thing you forget either. At the time, I just figured Lude had been putting me on.	He  likes to exaggerate.	I eventually found a studio in Hollywood and settled back into my mind numbing routine as an apprentice at a tattoo shop.It was the end of '96.	Nights were cold.	I was getting over this woman named Clara English who had  told me she wanted to date someone at the top of the food chain.		So I demonstrated my unflagging devotion to her memory by immediately developing a heavy crush on this  stripper who had Thumper tattooed right  beneath her G-string, barely an inch from her shaved pussy or as she liked to call it-"The Happiest Place  On Earth."	Suffice it say, Lude & I spent the last hours of the year alone, scouting for new bars, new faces, driving recklessly through the canyons,  doing our best to talk the high midnight heavens down with a whole lot of bullshit.	We never did.	Talk them down, I mean.Then the old man died.From what I can gather now, he was an American.Though as I would later find out, those who worked with him detected an accent even if they could never say for certain where it came from.He  called himself Zampano.	It was the name he put down on his apartment lease and on several other fragments I found.	I never came across any sort of ID, whether a passport, license or other official document insinuating that yes, he indeed was An- Actual-&-Accounted-For person.Who knows where his name really came from.Maybe it's authentic, maybe made up, maybe borrowed, a nom de plume or-my personal favorite-a nom deguerre.As  Lude told it,  Zampano had lived in the building for many years, and though he mostly kept to himself, he never failed to appear every morning and evening to walk around the courtyard,  a wild place with knee high weeds and back then populated with over eighty stray cats.	Apparently the cats liked the old man alot and though he offered no enticements, they would constantly rub up against his legs  before darting back into the center of that dusty place.Anyway,  Lude had been out very late with some woman he'd met at his salon.	It was just after seven when he finally stumbled back into the courtyard and despite a severe hangover immediately saw what was missing.	Lude frequently came home early and always found the old guy working his way around the perimeter of all those weeds, occasionally resting on a sun beaten bench before taking another round.	A single mother who got up every morning at six also noted Zampano's absence.	She went off to work, Lude went off to bed, but when dusk came and their old neighbor had still not appeared,  both Lude and the single mother went to alert Flaze, the resident building manager.Flaze is part Hispanic,  part Samoan.	A bit of agiant,  you might say.		6'4", 245lbs, virtually no body fat.	Vandals, junkies, you name it, they get near the building and Flaze will lunge at them like a pitbull raised in a crackhouse.		And don't think he believes size & strength are invincible.	If the interlopers are carrying,  he'll show them his own gun collection and he'll draw on them too, faster than Billy The Kid. But as soon as Lude voiced his  suspicions  about the old man, pitbull & Billy The Kid went straight out the window.	Flaze suddenly couldn't find the keys.	He started muttering about calling the owner of the building.		After twenty minutes, Lude was so  fed up with this hemming & hawing he offered to handle the whole thing himself.	Flaze immediately found the keys and with a big grin plopped them into Lude's outstretched hand.Flaze told me later he'd never seen a dead body before and there was no question there would be a body and that just didn't sit well with Flaze.	"We knew what we'd find," he said.	"We knew that  guy was dead."The police found Zampano just like  Lude  found him,  lying face down on the floor.	The paramedics said there was nothing unusual, just the way it goes, eighty some years and the inevitable kerplunk, the system goes down, lights blink out and there you have it, another body on the  floor  surrounded by things that don't mean much to anyone except to the one who can't take any of them along.	Still, this was better than the prostitute the paramedics had seen earlier that day.	She had been torn to pieces  in  a hotel room, parts of her used to paint the walls and ceiling red.	Compared to that, this almost seemed pleasant.The whole process took awhile.	Police corningand going, paramedics attending to the body, for one thing making sure the old man was really dead; neighbors and eventually even Flaze poking their heads in to gawk, wonder or just graze on a scene that might someday resemble their own end.	When it was finally over,  it was very late.	Lude stood alone in the apartment, the corpse gone, officials gone, even Flaze, the neighbors and other assorted snoops-all gone.Not a soul in sight."Eighty fucking years old, alone in that pisshole," Lude had told me later.	"I don't want to end up like that.	No wife, no kids, no nobody at all. Not even one fucking friend."	I must have laughed because Lude suddenly turned on me: "Hey Hoss, don't think young and squirting lots of come guarantees you shit.	Look at yourself, working at a tattoo shop, falling for some  stripper named Thumper."	And he was sure right about one thing: Zampano had no family, no friends and hardly a penny to his name.The next day the landlord posted a notice of abandonment and a week later, after declaring that the contents of the apartment were worth less  than  $300, he called some charity to haul the  stuff away.	That was the night Lude made his awful discovery, right before the boys  from Goodwill or wherever they came from swept in with their gloves and handtrucks.When the phone rang,  I was fast asleep.		Anybody else I would have hung up on, but Lude's a good enough friend I actually dragged my ass out of  bed at  three in the morning and headed over to Franklin.	He was waiting outside the gate with a wicked gleam in his  eye.I should have turned around right then.		I should have known something was up, at the very least sensed the consequence lingering in the air, in the hour, in Lude's stare, in all of it, and fuck,  I must have been some kind of moron to have been so oblivious to all those signs.	The way Lude's keys rattled like bone-chimes as he opened the main gate; the hinges suddenly shrieking as if we weren't entering a crowded building but some  ancient moss-eaten crypt.	Or the way we padded down the dank  hallway,  buried in shadows, lamps  above hung with spangles of  light that I swear now must have been the work of gray, primitive spiders.	Or probably most important of all, the way Lude whispered when he told me things, things I couldn't give a damn  about back then but now,  now, well my nights would be a great deal shorter if I didn't have to remember them.Ever see yourself doing something in the pastand no matter how many times you remember it you still want to scream stop, somehow redirect the action, reorder the present?	I feel that way now, watching myself tugged stupidly along by inertia, my own inquisitiveness or whatever else,  and it  must have been something else,  though what exactly I have no clue, maybe nothing, maybe nothing's all-a pretty meaningless combination of words, "nothing's all", but one I like  just the same.	It doesn't matter anyway.Whatever orders the path of all my yesterdays wasstrong enough that night to draw me past all thosesleepers kept safely at bay from the living, locked behind their sturdy doors, until I stood at the end of the hall facing the last door on the left, an unremarkable door too, but still a door to the dead.Lude, of course, had been unaware of the unsettling characteristics of our little journey to the back of the building.	He had been recounting to me, in many ways dwelling upon, what had happened following the old man's death."Two things, Hoss," Lude muttered as the gate glided open.	"Not that they make much difference." And as far as I can tell,  he was right.	They have very little to do with what follows.	I include them only because they're part of the history surrounding zampano's death. Hopefully you'll be able to make sense of what I can represent though still fail to understand."The first peculiar thing,"  Lude told me, leading the way around a short  flight of  stairs. "Were the cats."	Apparently in the months preceding the old man's death, the cats had begun to disappear. By the time he died they were  all gone.	"I saw one with its head ripped off and another with its guts strewn all over the sidewalk.	Mostly though, they just vanished.""The second peculiar thing, you'll see for yourself" Lude said, lowering his voice even more, as we slipped past the room of what looked suspiciously like a coven of musicians, all of them listening intently to headphones, passing around a spliff."Right next to the body," Lude continued.	"I found these gouges  in the hardwood floor,  a good six or seven inches long.	Very weird.	But since the old man showed no sign of physical trauma, the cops let it go."He stopped.	We had reached the door.	Now Ishudder.	Back then,  I think I was elsewhere.		More than  likely daydreaming about Thumper.	This will probably really wig you out, I don't care, but one night I even rented Bambi  and got a hard on.	That's how bad I had it for her.	Thumper was something else and she sure beat the hell out of Clara English.Perhaps at that moment I was even thinking about what the two would look like  in  a cat fight.	One thing's for sure though, when I heard Lude turn the bolt and open Zampano's door, I lost sight of those dreams.What hit me first was the smell.	It wasn't  a bad smell  just incredibly strong.	And it wasn't one thing either.	It was extremely layered, a patina upon progressive patina of odor, the actual source of which had long since evaporated.	Back then it had overwhelmed me, so much of it, cloying, bitter,rotten, even mean.	These days I can no  longer remember the smell only my reaction to it.	Still if I had to give it a name,  I think I would call it the scent of human history-a composite of sweat, urine, shit, blood, flesh and semen, as well as joy, sorrow, jealousy, rage, vengeance, fear,  love,  hope  and a whole lot more.	All of which probably sounds pretty ridiculous, especially since the abilities of my nose are not really relevant here.	What's important though is that this smell was complex for a reason.All the windows were nailed shut and sealed with caulking.	The front entrance and courtyard doors all storm proofed.		Even the vents were covered with duct tape.	That said,  this peculiar effort to eliminate any ventilation in the tiny apartment did not culminate with bars on the windows or multiple locks on the doors.	Zampano was not afraid of the outside world.		As I've already pointed out, he walked around his courtyard and supposedly was even fearless enough to brave the LA public transportation system for an occasional trip to the beach (an adventure even I'm afraid to make).		My best guess now is that he sealed his apartment in an effort to retain the various emanations of his things and himself.Where his things were concerned, they ran thespectrum: tattered furniture, unused candles, ancient shoes (these in particular looking sad & wounded), ceramic bowls as well as glass jars  and small wood boxes full of rivets,  rubber bands,  sea shells, matches, peanut shells, a thousand different kinds of elaborately shaped and colored buttons.	One ancient beer stein held nothing more than discarded perfume bottles.	As I discovered, the refrigerator wasn't empty but there wasn't any food in  it either.	Zampano had crammed it full of strange, pale books.Of course all of that's  gone now.	Long gone.The smell too.	I'm left with only a few scattered mental snapshots: a battered Zippo lighter with Patent Pending printed on  the bottom;  the twining metal ridge, looking a little like some tiny  spiral staircase, winding down  into the bulbless  interior of a light socket;  and for some odd reason-what I remember most of all-a very old tube of  chapstick with an amber like resin,  hard & cracked.	Which still isn't entirely accurate; though don't be misled intothinking I'm not trying to be accurate.	There were, I admit, other things  I recall about his  place,  they just don't seem relevant now.	To my eye, it was all just junk, time having performed no economic alchemy there, which hardly mattered, as Lude hadn't called me over to  root around in these particular and-to use  one of those big words I would eventually learn in the ensuing months-deracinated details of Zampano's life.Sure enough, just as my friend had described, on the floor, in fact practically dead center, were the four marks,  all of them longer than a hand,  jagged bits of wood clawed up by something neither one of us cared to imagine.	But that's not what Lude wanted me to see either.	He was pointing at something else which hardly impressed me when I first glanced at its implacable shape.Truth be told, I was still having a hard timetaking my eyes off the scarred floor.	I even reached out to touch the protruding splinters.What did I know then?	What do I know now?	At least some of the horror I took away at four in the morning you now have before you, waiting for you a little like it waited for me that night, only without these few covering pages.As I discovered, there were reams  and reams  of it.	Endless snarls of words, sometimes twisting into meaning, sometimes into nothing at all, frequently breaking apart, always branching off into other pieces I'd come across later-on old napkins, the tattered edges of an envelope, once even on the back of apostage stamp; everything and anything but empty; each fragment completely covered with the creep of  years and years of ink pronouncements; layered, crossed out, amended; handwritten, typed; legible, illegible; impenetrable, lucid; torn, stained, scotch taped; some bits crisp and clean, others faded,  burnt or  folded and refolded so many times  the creases  have obliterated whole passages of god knows what-sense? truth? deceit? a legacy of prophecy or  lunacy or nothing of the kind?, and in the end achieving, designating, describing, recreating-find your own words; I have no more; or plenty more but why? and all to tell-what?Lude didn't need to have the answer, but somehowhe knew I would.	Maybe that's why we were  friends. Or maybe I'm wrong.	Maybe he did need the answer, he just knew he wasn't the one who could  find it.	Maybe that's the real reason we were friends.	But that's probably wrong too.One thing's for sure, even without touching it, both of us slowly began to feel its heaviness, sensed something horrifying in its proportions, its silence, its stillness, even if it did seem to have been shoved almost carelessly to the side of  the room.	I think now if  someone had said be careful,  we would have.	I know a moment came when I felt certain its resolute blackness was capable of anything, maybe even of slashing out, tearing up the floor, murdering Zampano, murdering us,  maybe even murdering you.	And then the moment passed.	Wonder and the way the unimaginable issometimes suggested by the inanimate suddenly faded. The thing became only a thing.So I took it home.Back then-well it's way back then by now-you could have found me downing shots of whiskey at La Poubelle, annihilating my inner ear at Bar Deluxe or dining at Jones with some busty redhead I'd met at  House of Blues,  our conversation traversing wildly from clubs we knew well to clubs we'd like to know better.		I sure as fuck wasn't bothered by old man Z's words.	All those signs I just  now finished telling you about quickly vanished in the light of subsequent days or had never been there to begin with, existing only in retrospect.At first only curiosity drove me from one phraseto the next.	Often a few days would pass before I'd pick up another mauled scrap, maybe even a week, but still I returned, for ten minutes, maybe twenty minutes, grazing over the scenes, the names, small connections starting to form, minor patterns evolving in those spare slivers of time.I never read for more than an hour.Of course curiosity killed the cat, and even if satisfaction supposedly brought it back, there's still that little problem with the man on the radio telling me more and more about some  useless information.	But I didn't care.	I just turned the radio off.And then one evening I looked over at my clock  and discovered seven hours had passed.	Lude had called but I hadn't noticed the phone ring.	I was more than a little surprised when I found his message on my answering machine.	That wasn't the last time I lost sense of time either.		In fact it began to happen more often, dozens of hours just blinking by, lost  in the twist of so many dangerous sentences.Slowly but surely, I grew more and more disoriented, increasingly more detached from the world, something sad and awful straining around the edges of my mouth,  surfacing in my eyes.		I stopped going out at night.		I stopped going out.			Nothing could distract me.	I felt like I was losing control. Something terrible was going to happen.	Eventually something terrible did happen.No one could reach me.	Not Thumper, not even Lude.	I nailed my windows shut, threw out the closet and bathroom doors, storm proofed everything,  and locks, oh yes, I bought plenty of  locks,  chains  too and a dozen measuring tapes, nailing all  those straight to the floor and the walls.	They looked suspiciously like  lost metal roods or,  from a different angle, the fragile ribs of some alien ship.However, unlike Zampano, this wasn't about smell, thiswas about space.	I wanted a closed, inviolate and most of all immutable space.At least the measuring tapes should have helped. They didn't.Nothing did.I just fixed myself some tea on the hot plate here.	My stomach's gone.	I can barely keep even this honey milked-up stuff down but I need the warmth.	I'm in a hotel now.	My studio's history.	Alot these days is history.I haven't even washed the blood off yet.	Not all of it's mine either.	Still caked around my fingers.	Signs of it on my shirt.	"What's happened here?" I keep asking myself.	"What have I done?"What would you have done?	I went straight for the guns and I loaded them and then I tried to decide what to do with them.	The obvious thing was shoot something.	 After all, that's what guns are designed to do-shoot something.	But who?	Or what?	I didn't have a clue.		There were people and cars outside my hotel window.		Midnight people I didn't know.Midnight cars I've never seen before.	I could have shot them.	I could have shot them all.I threw up in my closet instead.Of course, I have only my own immeasurable stupidity to blame for winding up here.	The old man left plenty of clues and warnings.	I was the fool to disregard them.	Or was it the reverse: did I secretly enjoy them?	At least I should have had some fucking inkling what I was getting into when I read this note, written just one day before he died:Which back then meant absolutely nothing to me. I sure as hell didn't pause to think that some lousy words were going to land me in a shitty hotel room saturated with the stink of my own vomit.After all, as I fast discovered, Zampano's entire project is about a film which doesn't even exist.	You can look, I have, but no matter how long you search you will never find The Navidson Record intheaters or video stores.		Furthermore, most of what's said by  famous people has been made up.	I tried contacting all of them.	Those that took the time to respond told me they had never heard of Will Navidson let alone Zampano.As for the books cited in the footnotes, a good portion of them are fictitious. For instance, Gavin Young's Shots In The Dark doesn't exist nor does TheWorks of Hubert Howe Bancroft.  Volume XXVIII.	On the other hand virtually any dimwit can go to a library  and find W.  M.  Lindsay and H.J. Thomson's Ancient Lore in Medieval Latin Glossaries.	There really was a "rebellion" on the 1973 Skylab mission but La Belle Nicoise et Le Beau Chien is made up as  is,  I assume, the bloody story of Quesada and Molino.Add to this my own mistakes  (and there's no doubt I'm responsible for plenty) as well as those errors Zampano made which I failed to notice or correct, and you'll see why there's suddenly a whole lot here not to take too seriously.In retrospect, I also realize there are probably numerous people who would have been better qualified to handle this work, scholars with PhDs  from Ivy League schools and minds greater than any Alexandrian Library or World Net.	Problem is those people were still in their universities, still on their net and nowhere near Whitley when an old man without friends  or family finally died.Zampano, I've come to recognize now, was a very funny man.	But his humor was that wry,  desiccated kind soldiers whisper, all their jokes  subsurface, their laughter amounting to little more than a tic in the corner of the mouth, told as they wait together in their outpost, slowly realizing that help's not going to reach them in time and come nightfall,  no matter what they've done or what they try to say, slaughter will overrun them all.	Carrion dawn for vultures.See,  the irony is  it makes no difference that the documentary at the heart of this book is fiction.Zampano knew from the get go that what's real or isn't real doesn't matter here.	The consequences are the same.I can suddenly imagine the cracked voice I never heard.	Lips  barely creasing into a smile.	Eyes pinned on darkness:"Irony?	Irony can never be more than our own personal Maginot Line; the drawing of it, for the most part, purely arbitrary."It's not surprising then that when it came to undermining his own work, the old man was superbly capable.	False quotes or invented sources, however, all pale in comparison to his biggest joke.Zarnpano writes constantly about seeing.	What we see,  how we see and what in turn we can't see.		Over and over again, in one form or another, he returns to the subject of light, space,  shape,  line,  color, focus, tone, contrast, movement, rhythm, perspective and composition.	None of which is surprising considering Zarnpano's piece centers on a documentary film called The Navidson Record made by a PulitzerPrize-winning photojournalist who must somehow capture the most difficult subject of all:  the sight of darkness itself.Odd, to say the least.At first I figured Zarnpano was just a bleak old dude, the kind who makes Itchy and Scratchy look like Calvin and Hobbes.	His apartment, however,  didn't come close to anything envisioned by Joel-Peter Witkin or what's routinely revealed on the news.	Sure his place was eclectic but hardly grotesque or even that  far out of the ordinary, until of  course you took a more careful look and realized-hey why are all these candles unused?	Why no clocks, none on the walls, not even on the corner of  a dresser?	And what's with these strange, pale books or the fact that there's hardly a goddamn bulb in the whole apartment, not even one in the refrigerator?	Well that, of course, was Zarnpano's greatest ironic gesture; love  of  love written by the broken hearted; love of life written by the dead: all this language of light, film and photography, and he hadn't seen a thing since the mid- fifties.He was blind as a bat.Almost half the books he owned were in Braille. Lude and Flaze both confirmed that over the years the old guy had had numerous readers visiting him during the day.	Some of these came from community centers, the Braille Institute, or were just volunteers fromuse, UCLA or Santa Monica College.	No one I everspoke with, however, claimed to know him well, though more than a few were willing to offer me their opinions.One student believed he was certifiably mad. Another actress, who had spent a summer reading to him,  thought Zarnpano was a romantic.	She had come over one morning and found him in "a terrible way.""At first I assumed he was drunk, but the oldguy never drank,  not even a sip of wine.		Didn't smoke either.	He really lived a very austere life.	Anyway he wasn't drunk,  just really depressed.	He started crying and asked me to leave.	I fixed him some tea.Tears don't frighten me.	Later he told me it was heart trouble.	'Just old heart-ache matters,' hesaid.	Whoever she was, she must have been really special.	He never told me her name."As  I eventually found out,  Zampano had seven names he would occasionally mention: Beatrice, Gabrielle, Anne-Marie, Dominique, Eliane, Isabelle and Claudine.	He apparently only brought them up when he was disconsolate and for whatever reason dragged back into some dark tangled time.	At least there's something more realistic about seven lovers than one mythological Helen.	Even in his eighties, Zarnpano sought out the company of the opposite sex.Coincidence had had no hand in arranging for all his readers to be female. As he openly admitted:  "there is no greater comfort in my life than those soothing tones cradled in a woman's words."Except maybe his own words.Zampano was in essence-to use another bigword-a graphomaniac.	He scribbled until he died and while he came close a few times, he never finished anything, especially the work he would unabashedly describe as either his masterpiece or his precious darling.	Even the day before he failed to appear in that dusty courtyard, he was dictating long discursive passages, amending previously written pages and restructuring an entire chapter.	His mind never ceased branching out  into new territories.	The woman who saw him for the last time, remarked that "whatever it was he could never quite address  in himself prevented him from ever settling.		Death finally saw to that."With a little luck, you'll dismiss this labor, react as Zampano had hoped, call it needlessly complicated, pointlessly obtuse, prolix-your word-, ridiculously conceived, and you'll believe all you've said, and then you'll put it aside-though even here, just that one word, "aside",  makes me shudder,  for what is ever really just put aside?-and you'll carry on, eat, drink, be merry and most of all you'll sleep well.Then again there's a good chance you won't.This much I'm certain of: it doesn't happen immediately.	You'll finish and that will be that,  until a moment will come, maybe in a month, maybe a year,  maybe even several years.	You'll be sick or feeling troubled or deeply in love  or quietly uncertain or even content for the first time in your life.	It won't matter.	Out of the blue, beyond any cause you can trace,  you'll  suddenly realize things are not how you perceived them to be  at all.	For some reason, you will no longer be the person you believed you once were.		You'll detect slow and subtle shifts going on all around you, more importantly shifts inyou.	Worse, you'll realize it's always been shifting, like a shimmer of sorts, a vast  shimmer,  only dark like a room.	But you won't understand why or how.You'll have forgotten what granted you this awareness in the first place.Old shelters-television, magazines,movies-won't protect you anymore.	You might try scribbling in a journal, on a napkin, maybe even in the margins of this book.	That's when you'll discover you no longer trust the very walls you always took for granted.	Even the hallways you've walked a hundred times will feel longer, much longer,  and the shadows, any shadow at all, will suddenly seem deeper,  much, much, deeper.You might try then, as  I did,  to find a sky so full of  stars  it will blind you again.	Only no sky can blind you now.	Even with all that  iridescent magic up there, your eye will no longer linger on the light,  it will no longer trace constellations.	You'll care only about the darkness and you'll watch it for hours, for days, maybe even  for years,  trying in vain to believe you're some kind of indispensable,universe-appointed sentinel, as if just by looking you could actually keep it all  at bay.	It will get so bad you'll be afraid to look away,  you'll be afraid to sleep.Then no matter where you are, in a crowded restaurant or on some desolate street or even in the comforts of your own home, you'll watch yourself dismantle every assurance you ever lived by.		You'll stand aside as a great complexity intrudes, tearing apart, piece by piece, all of your carefully conceived denials,  whether deliberate or unconscious.	And then for better or worse you'll turn, unable to resist, though try to resist you still will, fighting with everything you've got not to face the thing you most dread, what is now, what will be, what has always come before, the creature you truly are,  the  creature we all are, buried in the nameless black of a name.And then the nightmares will begin.- Johnny Truant October 31, 1998 Hollywood, CA  That first bit comes from Milton's Paradise Lost. Book I, lines 65-67. The second from Dante's Inferno. Canto III, lines 7-9.	In 1939, some guy named John D. Sinclair from the Oxford University Press translated the Italian as follows: "Before me nothing was created but eternal things and I endure eternally.	Abandon every hope, ye that enter."58i.e. 1993.   11Not the first and definitely not the last time Zampano implies thatThe Nayidson Record exists.          In         9 81 got up this morning to take a shower  and guess what?	No fucking hotwater.	A pretty evil discovery especially when you're depending on that watery wake-up call,  me being massively dehydrated from a long night drunk my road-dog Lude and I winged our way onto  last night.	As I'm remembering it now, we somehow ended up at this joint on Pico, and soon thereafter found ourselves in conversation with some girls wearing black cowboy hats, supposedly lost  in their own private-blend of brain- hatching euphoria-Thank you Herbal Ecstasy-prompting us  to  put  a little Verbal Ecstasy on them which would, as it turned out, ultimately lead them giggling into the night.I've forgotten now what we did exactly to get the whole thing rolling.	I think Lude started giving one of them a trim, whipping out his scissors which he always has on hand, like old gunslingers I guess always had on hand their Colts-there he goes, snipping locks & bangs, doing a great fucking job too, but hey he's a pro, and all of it in the dark too, on a barstool,  surrounded by dozens of who knows who,  fingers & steel clicking away, tiny bits of hair spitting off into the  surrounding turmoil, the girls  all nervous until they see he really is the shit and then they're immediately chirping "me,  next"  & "do me" which is too easy to remark upon, so instead Lude & I remark upon something else which this  time round is  all about some insane adventure I supposedly had when I was a Pit Boxer.	Mind you I'd never heard that term before nor had Lude.	Lude just made it up and I went with it."Aw come on, they don't want to hear about that," I said withabout as much reluctance as I could reasonably feign."No Hoss,  you' re wrong," Lude insisted.	"You must.""Very well," I said, starting then to recall for everyone how at the lonely age of nineteen I had climbed off a barge in Galveston. "Actually I escaped," I improvised.	"See, I still owed my crazy Russian Captain a thousand dollars for a wager I'd lost  in Singapore. He wanted to murder me so I practically had to run the whole way to Houston.""Don't  forget to tell them about the birds," Lude winked.	He was just throwing shit at me,  something he loved doing,  keeping me on my toes."Sure," I mumbled,  stretching for an explanation.	"This barge I'd been on was loaded with dates and pounds  of  hash and  an incredible number of exotic birds, all of it, of course, illegal to transport,  but what did I know?	It  didn't exactly affect me.	And anyway, I wasn't sticking around.	So I reach Houston and the first thing that happens, some twerp comes up and tries to rob me."Lude frowned.	He clearly wasn't pleased with what I'd just done to his birds.I ignored him and continued."This guy just walked straight over and told me to give him all my money.	I didn't have a dime on me but it wasn't like this weasely sonofabitch had a weapon or anything.	So I slugged him.	Down he went. But not for long.	A second later he pops up again and you know what?  he's smiling, and then this other guy joins him, much bigger, and he was smiling too and  shaking my hand, congratulating me.	They'd been searching all day for a Pit Boxer,  pay was two hundred dollars a night  and apparently I'd  just made the grade.		This weasely sonofabitch  was the head interviewer.	His partner referred to him as Punching Bag."By now the girls were crowding around me & Lude, sucking down moredrinks and all  in all  falling into the rhythm of the story.	carefully, I led them through that first night, describing the ring with its dirt floor surrounded by hordes of folk come to bet a few dollars and watch  guys hurt-hurt themselves,  hurt someone else.	Gloves were not an option in this  kind of fighting.	Miraculously, I made it through alive. I actually won my first two fights.	A couple of bruises,  a cut cheek, but I walked with two hundred bucks and Punching Bag forked for ribs and beer and even let me crash on  his couch.	Not bad.	So I continued.	In fact, for a whole month I did this twice a week."See the scar on his eyebrow there-" Lude pointed, giving thegirls one of those all knowing completely over-the-top nods."Is that how you broke your front tooth too?" a girl with a ruby pin in her cowboy hat blurted out, though as soon as  she said it,  I could see she felt bad about mentioning my busted incisor."I'm getting to that," I said with a smile.Why not work the tooth into it too?, I thought.After three-four weeks, I continued,  I had enough dough to pay back the Captain and even keep a bit  for myself.	I was pretty tired of the whole thing anyway.The  fights were bad enough.  "And incidentally I'd won every one," I added.	Lude scoffed.	"But having to be wary all the time around the likes of Punching Bag & his partner, that was by far the worst aspect. Also, as it turned out, the place  I was  staying in was  a whorehouse, full of these sad girls, who between their own senseless  rounds would talk about the simplest, most inconsequential things.  I liked it better on the barge, even with the Captain and his murderous moods."Well my last night, the twerp pulls me aside and suggests I betmy dough on myself.	I tell him I don't want to because I could lose. 'You  stupid fucking kid,'  he spits at me.	'You've won every fight so far.'	'Yeah,' I say.		'So?'	'Well  figure it out.	It's not because you're any good.	They've all been fixed.	I find some lump, pay himfifty bucks to swing and dive.	We make a killing on the bets.	You won last week,  you won the week before,  you'll win tonight.	I'm just trying to help you out here.'"So being the stupid kid I was I bet all the money I had and walked into the ring.	Who do you think was there waiting from me?"I gave everyone a chance to come up with their own answer while I drained my glass of beer, but no one had  a clue who  I was  about to fight.	Even Lude was  a step behind.	Of course, that depends on how you look at it:  he was also fondling the ass  of a girl with a tourmaline in her cowboy hat while she in turn, or so it appeared to me, was caressing  the inside of his thigh."In the middle of all those Houston losers, all of 'em screaming odds, screaming money, licking their gums for blood, stood Punching Bag, fists all taped up and not even the flicker of a smile or the  slightest bit of  recognition in his eye.	Boy, let me tell you,  he turned out  to be a mean-spirited remorseless s.o.B.	That first round he knocked me down twice.	The second round I almost didn't get up."All month long, he and his  partner had been boosting the numbers on me so that when Punching Bag-and at this point he was the longshot-slaughtered me,  they'd walk with a small fortune.	Or run.	Me though,  a dumb nineteen year old who'd wandered into Galveston after three months at sea, I was going to lose my money and wind up in a hospital.	Maybe worse.	Since the fights were just three rounds long, I only had one more left to  do something.	His partner threw a bucket of ice water in my face and told me to crawl out there and get it overwith."As I wobbled to my feet, I shook my head, and saying it  loud enough so he could hear me, but not so loud so he'd think I was selling something, I said that it was all  too bad because I'd been planning to use my money to buy a shipment of some stuff worth at least a thousand percent on the street."Well, the next round, the last round I should say, Punching Bag broke my tooth.	I was out.	They'd both originally planned to ditch me but my little gambit had worked.	After what the partner had heard me say,  which I'm sure he shared as  soon as  he could with Punching Bag, they dragged me along, dumped some whiskey into me in their truck and then started grilling me about that  stuff  I'd been babbling about, trying to find out what was worth a thousand percent."Now I was in a bad way, more than a little afraid that they'd do something really evil if they found out I'd been bullshitting them.Still, if I stayed in Houston I'd probably be  lynched by the bettors who by now had figured out  something was  sour which could only mean one thing to them (all explanations to the  grave):  Punching Bag  & his partner and me were to blame.	I had to think fast and besides, I still wanted my money back, so-"By now even Lude was hooked.	They all were.	The girls all engrossed and smiling and still shimmying closer, as if  maybe by touching me they could find out for sure  if  I was for real.	Lude knew it was  pure crap but he  had no clue where I was heading.	To tell you the truth neither did I.	So I took my best shot."I  pointed them to the barge.	I hadn't figured out what I'd do once we got there but I knew the  ship was  leaving with the tide early next morning so we had to hurry.	Luckily we arrived in time and I immediately went off to find the Captain who as soon  as  he  saw me grabbed me by the throat.	Somehow between gasps, I succeeded in telling him about Punching Bag & his partner and their money-all their money which included my money most of which was in essence the Captain'smoney.	That got the bastard listening.	A few minutes later, he sauntered over to the duo, poured them coffee mugs full of vodka,  and in his incomprehensible accent, began going on and on about pure New Guinea value."Punching Bag had no idea what this  idiot was talking about, neither did I for that matter, but an hour and two bottles of vodka  later, he came to the conclusion that the Captain must be talking about drugs.	After all the Captain kept mentioning euphoria,  Spanish explorers and paradise, even though he refused to show Punching Bag the tiniest bit of anything tangible, vaguely referring to custom officials and the constant threat of confiscation and jail."Now here was the clincher.	While he's babbling on,  this van drives up and a guy no one has  ever seen before or ever will see again gets out, gives the Captain a thousand dollars, takes one crate and then drives off.	Just like that,  and boy does that  do it.	Without even examining what he's  buying,  Punching Bag hands over five g's.	The Captain, keeping his  word,  immediately loads  five crates  into the back of Punching Bag's truck."I'm sure the twerp would of inspected them right on the spot, except suddenly in the distance we all start hearing police sirens or harbor patrol sirens or some  such shit.	They weren't after us, but Punching Bag & his partner still got spooked and took off as fast as they could."Even after we got out to sea,  the Captain was  still laughing.	I wasn't though.	The bastard wouldn't give me any of  my money.	By his way of thinking-and him explaining this to me in that incomprehensible accent of his-I owed him for saving my life,  not  to mention transporting my sorry ass all  the way to Florida,  where I finally did end up going, nearly dying in a cold water place called the Devil's Ear which is an altogether different story."Still it wasn't so bad, especially when I think now and then about Punching Bag & his partner.	I mean I wonder what they did, what they said, when they finally tore open all those crates and discovered all  those fucking birds.	Over fifty Birds of Paradise."A few months later I did read somewhere how Houston Police busted two known felons trying to unload a bunch of exotic birds at a zoo."Which was pretty much how that story ended or at least the story I told last night.	Maybe not verbatim but close.Unfortunately nothing happened with the girls.		They just ran off giggling into the night.	No digits, no dates, not even their names, leaving me feeling dumb and sad,  a bit like  a broken thermos-fine on the outside,  but on the  inside nothing but busted glass.	And why I'm going on about any of this right now is  beyond me.	I've never even seen a Bird of Paradise.	And I sure as hell have never boxed or been on abarge.	In fact just looking at this story makes me feel a little queasy all of a sudden.	I mean how fake it is.	Just sorta doesn't sit right with me.		It's like there's something else, something beyond it all, a greater story still looming in the twilight, which for some reason I'm unable to see.Anyway I didn't mean to wander into all this.	I was telling you about the shower.	That's what I wanted to deal with.		As you probably know, finding out there's no warm water is a particularly unpleasant discovery simply because it's not something you figure out immediately. You have to let the water run awhile and even though  it remains icy,   part of you still refuses to believe it won't change, especially if youwait a little longer or open up the valve a  little more.	So you wait but no matter how many minutes run by, you still see no steam, you still feel no heat.Maybe a cold shower would of  been good for me.	The thought crossed my mind but I was already too freezing to try for even a quick one.	I don't even know why I was freezing.	It was pretty warm in my place.		Even warmer outside.	Not even my big brown corduroy coat helped.Later I spotted some workers in back tackling the water heater.One of them, snorting on a dirty handkerchief, covered in tatts, Manson crucified on his  back,  told me it would be fixed by evening.	It's not.Now I'm sure you're wondering something.	Is it just coincidence that this cold water predicament of mine also appears in this chapter?Not at all.	Zampano only wrote "heater."	The word "water" back there-I added that.Now there's an admission, eh? Hey, not fair, you cry.Hey, hey, fuck you, I say.Wow,  am I mad right now.		Clearly a nerve's been hit somewhere but I don't how,  why or by what.	I sure don't believe it's because of some crummy made-up story or a lousy (water) heater.Can't follow the feeling.If  only any of  it were true.	I mean we'd all be so lucky to wind up a punching bag and still find our crates full of Birds of Paradise.No such luck with this crate. Let the cold water run.It's gotta warm up eventually. Right?   "25 "B ut Moses said to God, 'Who am I that I should go to Pharaoh and free the Israelites from Egypt?' "- Ed.25oante again.	Again translated by Sinclair.	Canto II; lines 31-32:"But  I, why should I go there,  and who grants it?	I am not Aeneas; I am not Paul."A question I'm often asking myself these days.	Though not the Aeneas/Paul part.The simple answer I know:  Lude woke me up at three in the morning to check out some dead guy's stuff.Of course,  it's  not really all that simple.	Typically when Lude calls me late at night it's because there's some party he wants to hit. He's the kind of guy who thinks sublime is  something you choke on after  a shot of tequila.	Maybe he's right.Not that this matters, someone once told me Lude's real name is Harry, maybe he did, though no one I know has ever called him that.Lude knows every bar, club and gatekeeper at every bar and club.Hollywood has  always been mother's milk to Lude.	Mother's tongue. Whatever.	Unlike me, he never needs to translate, interpret or learn in LA.	He knows.	He knows the drinks, the addresses and most important of all he can usually tell the difference between the women who are out to talk and those out  to do something a little more  interesting which always interests Lude.Despite a nose that others have described as a bee-battered, Lude's always surrounded by very attractive women which is pretty much the norm for hair stylists-and photographers-especially if they're good and Lude is that.	Beautiful women are always drawn to men they think will keep them beautiful.During the past two years, he and I have spent a good deal of time wandering all over this  odd city.	We both thrive in the late hours,appreciate its sad taste and never get in the way of each other's dreams, even though Lude just wants more money, better parties and prettier girls  and I want something else.	I'm not even sure what to call it anymore except I know it feels roomy and it's drenched in sunlight and it's weightless and I know it's not cheap.Probably not even real.Who can guess why Lude and  I have  ended up friends.		I think it's mainly because he recognizes that I'm game for any mis-step he has  in mind and he enjoys the company.	Of course publicly, Lude likes to throw me plenty of props, invariably focusing on the disjointed life I've led. He's still impressed-and in turn likes to impress others-with the fact that at the  age of thirteen I went to work in Alaska and by the time  I was eighteen had already slept  in a whorehouse in Rome.	Most of all though he  loves the stories.	Especially the way I tell  them to the girls we meet. (I already got into that a little with the whole riff on boxing and Birds of Paradise and some guy named Punching Bag.)	But they're only stories, the way  I tell them I mean.  I actually have a whole bunch.Take the scars for instance.There are  a number of variations on that one.	The most popular is my two year stint in a Japanese Martial Arts Cult, made up entirely of Koreans living in Idaho, who on the last day of my initiation into their now-defunct brotherhood made me pick up a scalding metal wok using only my bare forearms.	In the past the wok has been heated in a kiln;  recently it's been full of  red hot coals.	The story's an absolute crock of shit, or should I say a wok of shit-sorry; I know, I know I should learn to crawl before I walk;  sorry again;  I mean for not being sorry  the first time or for that matter the second time-but, you see, it's so hard to argue with all those whirls of melted flesh."Show them your arms, Johnny" Lude will say, in his most offhand over-the-top manner."Aw come on.	Well,  alright just this once."	I roll up my left sleeve and then, taking my time, I roll up the right one."He got that in a cult in Indiana.""Idaho,"  I correct him.	And it goes on from there.I'm sure most women know it's bull but hey, they're entertained.I also think it's somewhat of a relief not to hear the true story.I mean you look at  the horror sweeping all  the way up from my wrists to my elbows, and you have to take  a deep breath and ask yourself,  do I really want to know what happened there?	In my experience, most people don't.	They usually look away.	My stories actually help them look away.Maybe they even help me look away.But  I guess that's nothing new.	We all create stories to protect ourselves.It's March now.	Late March.	Three months have gone by since Lude called me up that night.	Three months since I dragged away a black, unremarkable, paint spattered trunk,  which as  I quickly found out was one of those old cedar lined jobbers, built in Utica, NY,  special thanks  to the c. M. Clapp Company, complete with  rusted  latches,  rotting leather handles and a lifetime of digressions and disappointments.To date, I've counted over two hundred rejection letters from various literary journals, publishing houses, even a few words of discouragement from prominent professors in east coast universities. No one wanted the old man's words-except me.20 What can I say, I'm a sucker for abandoned stuff, misplaced stuff, forgotten stuff, any old stuff which despite the  light of progress and  all that, still vanishes every day like shadows at  noon,  goings unheralded, passings unmourned, well, you get the drift.As a counselor once told me-a Counselor For Disaffected Youth, Imight add:  "You  like that crap because it  reminds you of you."	Couldn't of  said  it better or put it more bluntly.	Don't even disagree with it either.	Seems pretty dead on and probably has everything to do with the fact that when I was ten my father died and almost nine years later my crazy Shakespearean mother followed him, a story I've already lived and really don't need to retell here.Still for whatever reason, and this my Counselor For Disaffected Youth could never explain, accepting his  analysis hardly altered the way I felt.I just glanced over at the trunk.	The first time I saw it, I mean when I discovered what was  inside,  it appalled me.		Like I was staring at the old guy's corpse.	Now it's  just a trunk.	Of course, I also remember thinking I was going  to toss  it by the end of the week.	That was  before I started reading.	Long before I began putting it all together.You know this is still the simple answer.I guess the complicated one I don't feel like getting into.22  IVMan,   32Declared Martin Heidegger's (Frankfurt Am Main: Vittorio Klostermann, 1977), p. 250- 251.3333And here's the English, thanks to John Macquarrie and Edward Robinsons' translation of Heidegger's Being and Time. Harper & Row, 1962, page 233.	A real bitch to find:In anxiety one feels uncanny.	Here the peculiar indefiniteness of that which Dasein finds itself alongside in anxiety, comes proximally to expression: the "nothing and nowhere".	But here "uncanniness" also means "not-being-at home." [das Nicht-zuhause-sein].	In our first indication of the phenomenal character of Dasein's basic state and in our clarification of the existential meaning of "Being-in" as distinguished from the categorial signification of 'insideness', Being-in was defined as "residing alongside . ¥ ¥", "Being-familiar withThis character of Being-in was then brought to view more concretely through the everyday publicness of the "they", which brings tranquilized self-assurance-'Being-at-home', with all its obviousness-into the average everydayness of Dasein.	On the other hand, as Dasein falls, anxiety brings it back from its absorption in the 'world'.Everyday familiarity collapses.	Dasein has been individualized, but individualized M. Being-in-the-world. Being-in enters into the existential 'mode' of the "not-at-home". Nothing else is meant by our talk about 'uncanniness'.Which only goes to prove the existence of crack back in the early twentieth century.	Certainly this geezer must of gotten hung up on a pretty wicked rock habit to start spouting such nonsense.	Crazier still, I've just now been wondering if something about this passage may have actually affected me, which I know doesn't exactly follow, especially since that would imply something in it really does make sense, and I just got finished calling it non-sense.I don't know.The point is, when I copied down the German a week ago, I was fine.	 Then last night I found the translation and this morning, when I went into work, I didn't feel at all myself.	It's probably just a coincidence-I mean that there's some kind of connection between my state of mind and The Nayidson Record or even a few arcane sentences on existence penned by a former Nazi tweaking on who knows what.	More than likely, it's something entirely else, the real root lying in my alreadystrange mood fluctuations, though I guess those are pretty recent too,rocking back and forth between wishful thinking and some private agony until the bar breaks.	I've no fucking clue.25 das Nicht-zuhause-sein [not-being-at-home.]That part's definitely true.These days,  I'm an apprentice at a tattoo shop  on Sunset.	I answer phones,  schedule consultations and clean up.		Any idiot could handle it.	In fact the  job's  reserved for idiots.	This afternoon though,  how do I explain it?,  something's really off.		I'm off.	I can't do  a fucking thing.	I just keep staring at all the  ink we have,  that wild variety of color, everything from rootbeer, midnight blue and cochineal to mauve, light doe, lilac,  south sea green,  maize,  even pelican black, all lined up in these plastic caps, like tiny transparent thimbles-and needles too, my eyes catching on all those carefully preserved points and we have hundreds, mostly #12 sharps, many singles, though plenty in two, three,  four,  five,  six and  seven needle groups, even a fourteen round shader.It depends on what you need.I don't know what I need but for no apparent reason I'm going terribly south.	Nothing has happened, absolutely nothing, but I'm still having problems breathing.	The air in the Shop is admittedly thick with the steady smell of sweat, isopropyl  alcohol,  Benz-all,  all  that solution for the ultrasonic cleaner,  even solder and  flux,  but that's not it either.Of course no one notices.	My boss, a retinue of his friends, some new inductee who's just put down $150 for a rose, keep up the chatter, pretty loud chatter too, though never quite enough to drown out the most important sound of all: the single, insistent buzz of an original  "J" tattoo machine logging yet another hundred stabs  a minute in the dimple of some chunky ass.I get a glass of water.	I walk out into the hallway.	That's a mistake.		I should of stayed near people.	The comfort of  company and all that.		Instead I'm alone, running through a quick mental check list: food poisoning? (stomach's fine) withdrawals? (haven't been on a gak or Ecstasy diet for several months, and while I didn't smoke any pot this morning-my usual ritual-I know THC doesn't create any lasting physical dependencies).	And then out of the be-fucking-lue, everything gets substantially darker.	Not pitch black mind you.		Not even power failure black.	More like a cloud passing over the sun.	Make that a storm.Though there is no storm.	No clouds.	It's a bright day and anyway I'm inside.I wish that had been all.	Just a slight decrease in illumination and a little breathing difficulty.	Could still blame that on a blown fuse or some  aberrant drug related flashback.	But then my nostrils flare with the scent of something bitter & foul, something inhuman, reeking with so much rot & years, telling me in the language of nausea that I'm not alone.Something's behind me.Of course, I deny it. It's impossible to deny. I wanna puke.To get a better idea try this: focus on these words,  and whatever you do don't  let  your eyes wander past the perimeter of this page.	Now imagine just beyond your peripheral vision,  maybe behind you,  maybe to the side of  you,  maybe even in front of you,  but right where you can't see it, something is quietly closing in on you, so quiet in fact you can only hear it as silence.	Find those pockets without sound.	That's26 where it is.	Right at this moment.	But don't look.	Keep your eyes here.	Now take a deep breath.	Go ahead take  an even deeper one.	Only this time as you  start to exhale try to imagine how fast it will happen, how hard it's gonna hit you, how many times it will  stab your  jugular with its teeth or are they nails?, don't worry, that particular detail doesn't matter, because before you have time to even process that you should be moving, you should be running, you should at the very least be flinging up your arms-you sure as hell should be getting rid of this book-you won't have time to even scream.Don't look.I didn't.Of  course I looked.I looked so fucking fast I should of ended up wearing one of those neck braces for whiplash.My hands had gone all clammy.	My face was burning up.	Who knows how much adrenaline had  just been dumped into my system.	Before I turned, it felt exactly as if in fact I had turned and at that instant caught sight of some tremendous beast crouched off  in the  shadows, muscles a twitch from firing its great mass forward, ragged claws slowly extending, digging into the linoleum, even as its  eyes  are dilating, beyond the point of reason,  completely obliterating the  iris,  and  by that widening fire, the glowing furnace of witness, a camera lucida, with me in silhouette, like some  silly Hand  shadow twitching about upside down, is that right?, or am I getting confused?, either way registering at last the sign it must have been waiting for: my own recognition of exactly what has been awaiting me all along-except that when I finally do turn, jerking around like the scared-shitless shit- for-brains I am, I discover only a deserted corridor, or was it merely a recently deserted corridor?, this thing, whatever it had been, obviouslybeyond the grasp of my imagination or for that matter my emotions,having departed into alcoves of darkness, seeping into corners & floors, cracks & outlets,  gone even to the walls.	Lights now normal.	The smell history.	Though my fingers  still tremble and I've yet to stop choking on large irregular gulps of air, as I keep spinning around like a stupid top spinning around on top of nothing, looking everywhere, even though there's absolutely nothing, nothing anywhere.I actually thought I was going to fall, and then just as abruptlyas I'd been possessed by this fear, it left me and I fell back into control.When I re-enter the Shop things are still askew but they at least seem manageable.The phone has been ringing. Nine times and counting, my boss announces. He's clearly annoyed. More annoyed when I express some surprise over his ability to count that high.I pick up before he can start yammering at me about my attitude.The call's for me.	Lude's on a pay phone in the valley with important info.		Apparently, there's some significant doings at some significant club.		He tells me he can guest list my boss and any cohorts  I deem worthy.	Sure, I say, but  I'm still  shaken and quickly lose hold of the details when I realize I've just forgotten something else aswell, something very important, which by the time  I hang up, no matter how hard I try, I can no longer remember what I'd meant to remember when whatever it was had first entered my head.Or had it?Maybe it hadn't entered my head  at all.	Maybe it had just brushed past me, like someone easing by in a dark room, the face lost in shadow,27 my thoughts lost in another conversation, though something in her movement or perfume is disturbingly familiar, though how familiar is impossible to tell because by the time I realize she's someone I should know she's already gone, deep into the din, beyond the bar, taking with her any chance of recognition.	Though she hasn't left.	She's still there.	Embracing shadows.Is that it?Had I been thinking of a woman? I don't know.I hope it doesn't matter.I have a terrifying feeling it does.34Neatly translated as "Who?" which I happened to find in this poem "Orpheus, Eurydice, Hermes."	The book's called The Selected Poetry of Rainer Maria Rilke, edited and translated by Stephen Mitchell.	1989. See page 53, Vintage International.28 29 caffeine wending past glass and politics until there is nothing more than a brown blot on the morning paper.36When Navidson looks up Karen is watching him."I called Tom," he tells her.She understands him well enough not to say a thing."He knows I'm insane," he continues. "And besides he builds houses for a living.""Did you talk to him?" she carefully asks. "Left a message."The next card simply reads: Tom is Will Navidson's fraternal twin brother. Neither one has said much to the other in over eight years. "Navy's successful, Tom's not," Karen explains in the film. ''There's been a lot of resentment over the years. I guess it's always been there, except when they lived at home. It was different then. They kind of looked after each other more."Two days later, Tom arrives. Karen greets with a big hug and aHi 8. He is an affable, overweight giant of a man who has an innate ability to amuse. The children immediately take to him. They love his laugh, not to mention his McDonalds french fries."My own brother who I haven't talked to in years calls me up at four in the morning and tells me he needs my too ls.Go figure.""That means you're family" Karen says happily, leading the way to Navidson's study where she has already set out clean towels and made up the hideaway.36Easily that whole bit from "coffee arcing tragically" down to "the mourning paper" could have been cut.	You wouldn't of noticed the absence.	I probably wouldn't of either.	But that doesn't change the fact that I can't do it.	Get rid of it, I mean.	What's gained in economy doesn't really seem to make up for what you lose of Zarnpano, the old man himself, corning a little more into focus, especially where digressions like these are concerned.I can't tell you why exactly but more and more these days I'mstruck by the fact that everything Zarnpano had is really gone, including the bowl of betel nuts left on his mantle or the battered shotgun bearing the initials RLB under his bed-Flaze appropriated that goody; the shotgun, not the bed-or even the curiously preserved bud of a white rose hidden in the drawer of his nightstand.	By now his apartment has been scrubbed with Clorox, repainted, probably rented out to someone else.	His body's either molding in the ground or reduced to ash.Nothing else remains of him but this.So you see from my perspective, having to decide between old man and his story is an artificial, maybe even dangerous choice, and one I'm obviously not comfortable making.		The way I figure it, if there's something you find irksome-go ahead and skip it.	I couldn't care less how you read any of this.	His wandering passages are staying, along with all his oddly canted phrases and even some warped bits in the plot. There's just too much at stake.	It may be the wrong decision, but fuck it, it's mine.Zarnpano himself probably would of insisted on corrections and edits, he was his own harshest critic, but I've come to believe errors, especially written errors, are often the only markers left by a solitary life: to sacrifice them is to lose the angles of personality, the riddle of a soul.	In this case a very old soul.	A very old riddle.31 733 I guess you might say in a round about way the old man introducedus.Anyway since that episode in the tattoo shop, I haven't gone outas much, though to tell you the truth I'm no longer convinced anything happened.	I keep cornering myself with questions: did I really experience some sort of  decapacitating seizure,  I mean in-?	Or did I invent it?		Maybe I just got a little creative with a residual hangover or a stupid head rush?Whatever the truth is,  I've been spending more and more time riddling through Zampano's bits-riddling also means sifting; as  in passing corn, gravel or cinders through a coarse sieve; a certain coed taught me that.	Not only have I found  journals packed with bibliographies and snaking etymologies and strange little, I don't know what you'd call them, aphorisms??? epiphanies???,  I also  came  across this notepad crammed with names and  telephone numbers.	Zampano's readers.	Easily over a hundred of them, though as I quickly discovered more than a few of the numbers are now defunct and very few of the names have  last names and for whatever reason those that do  are unlisted.	I left a couple of messages on some machines and then somewhere on page three, Ms.		Rightacre picked up.	I told her about my inheritance  and she immediately agreed to meet me for a drink.Amber, it turns out, was quite a number; a quarter French and aquarter Native American with naturally black hair, dark blue eyes and a beautiful belly, long and flat and thin, with a slender twine of silver piercing her navel.	A barbed wire tattoo in blue & red encircled her ankle.	Whether Zampano knew it or not, she was a sight I'm sure he was sorry to miss."He loved to brag about how uneducated he was," Amber told me."'I  never even went to high school'  he would say.	"'Good, that makes me smarter than you.'		We talked like that a little, but most of the time, I just read to him.			He insisted on Tolstoy.	Said I read Tolstoy better than anyone else.	I think that was mainly because I could manage the French passages okay, my Canadian background and all."After a few more drinks,  we ambled over to the Viper.		Lude was hanging out  at the door and walked us in.	Much to my surprise, Amber grabbed my arm as we headed up  the stairs.		This thing we shared in common seemed to have created a surprisingly  intense bond.	Lude listened to us for a while,  hastening to add at every pause that he was the one who'd found the damn thing, in fact he was the one who'd called  me, he'd even seen Amber around his building a few times, but because he hadn't taken the time to read any of the text he could never address the particulars of our conversation.	Amber and I were lost to a different world,  a deeper history.	Lude knew the play.	He ordered a drink on my tab and went in search of other entertainment.When I eventually got around to asking Amber to describe Zampano, she just called him "imperceivable and alone, though not I think so lonely."	Then the first band came on and we stopped talking.Afterwards, Amber was the one who resumed the conversation, stepping a little closer,  her elbow grazing mine.	"I never got the idea he had a family," she continued.	"I asked him once-and I remember this very clearly-I asked him if he had  any children.	He said he didn't have any children any more.	Then he added: 'Of course, you're all my children,' which was  strange since  I was the only one there.	But the way he looked at me with those blank eyes-" she shuddered and quickly folded her arms  as  if  she'd just gotten cold.	"It was like that tiny place of his was suddenly full of faces and he could see them all, even speak to them.It made me real uneasy,  like I was surrounded by ghosts.	Do you believe in ghosts?"I told her I didn't know.She smiled."I'm a Virgo, what about you?"We ordered another round of drinks, the next band came up, but we didn't stay to hear them finish.	As we walked to her place-it turned out she  lived nearby,  right above Sunset Plaza in fact-she kept returning to the old man, a trace of her own obsession mingling with the drift of her thoughts."So not so lonely,"  she murmured.	"I mean with all  those ghosts, me and his other children, whoever they were, though actually, hmmm I forgot about this, I don't know why, I mean it was why I finally stopped going over there.	When he blinked, his eyelids, this  is  kind of weird, but they stayed closed a little bit longer than a blink, like he was consciously closing them, or about to sleep, and I always wondered for a fraction of a second if  they would ever open again.	Maybe theywouldn't, maybe he was going to go to sleep or maybe even die, andlooking at his face then,  so serene and peaceful made me sad, and  I guess I take back what I said before, because with his eyes closed he didn't look alone, then he looked lonely, terribly lonely,  and that made me feel real sad and it made me  feel  lonely too.	I stopped going there after a while.	But you know what,  not visiting him made me feel guilty. I think I still feel guilty about just dropping out on him like that."We  stopped talking about Zampano then.	She paged her friend Christina who took less  than twenty minutes to come over.	There were no introductions.	We just  sat down on the floor and snorted lines of coke off a CD case, gulped down a bottle of wine and then used it to play spin the bottle.		They kissed each other first, then they both kissed me, and then we forgot about the bottle, and I even managed to forget about Zampano,  about this,  and about how much that attack in the tattoo shop  had put me on edge.	Two kisses in one kiss was all it took, a comfort, a warmth, perhaps temporary, perhaps false, but reassuring nonetheless, and mine, and theirs, ours, all  three  of  us  giggling, insane giggles and laughter with still more kisses on the way, and I remember a brief instant then, out of the blue,  when I suddenly glimpsed my own father, a rare but oddly peaceful recollection, as if he actually approved of my play in the way he himself had always laughed and played, always laughing, surrendering to its ease, especially when he soared in great updrafts of light, burning off distant plateaus of bistre & sage, throwing him up like an angel, high above the red earth, deep into the sparkling blank, the tender sky that never once let him down, preserving his attachment to youth, propriety and kindness, his plane almost, but never quite, outracing his whoops of  joy,  trailing him in  his  sudden turn to the wind,  followed then by a near vertical  climb up to the  angles of the sun, and  I was barely eight and still with him and yes,  that	the thought that flickered madly through me, a brief instant of communion,  possessing me with warmth and ageless ease,  causing me to smile again and relax as if memory alone could lift the heart like the  wind lifts a wing, and so I renewed my kisses with even greater enthusiasm, caressing and in turn devouring their dark lips,  dark with wine and fleeting love, an ancient memory love had promised but finally never gave,  until there were too many kisses to count or remember,  and  the memory of love proved not love at  all  and  needed a replacement, which our bodies found, and then the giggles subsided, and the laughter dimmed, and darkness enfolded all  of  us  and we gave away our childhood for nothing and we died and condoms littered the floor and Christinathrew up in the sink and Amber chuckled a little and kissed me a little more, but in a way that told me it was time to leave.And so only now, days later, as I give these moments shape here, do I re-encounter what my high briefly withheld; the covering memory permanently hitched to everything preceding it and so prohibiting all of it, those memories, the good ones, no matter how different, how blissful, eclipsed by the jack-knifed trailer across the highway, the tractor truck lodged in the stony ditch off the shoulder, oily smoke billowing up into the night, and hardly deterred by the pin prick drizzle, the fire itself crawling up from the punctured fuel tanks, stripping the paint, melting the tires and blackening the shattered glass, the windshield struck from within, each jagged line telling the story of a broken heart which no ten year old boy should ever have to recollect let alone see, even if it is only in half-tone, the ink, all of it, over and over again, finally gathered on his delicate finger tips, as if by tracing the picture printed in the newspaper, he could in some way retract the details of death, smooth away the cab where the man he saw and loved like a god, agonized and died with no word of his own, illegible or otherwise, no god at all, and so by dissolving the black sky bring back the blue.	But he never did.	He only wore through one newspaper after another which was when the officials responsible for the custody of parentless children decided something was gravely wrong with him and sent him away, making sure he had no more clippings and all the ink, all that remained of his father, was washed from my hands.43Nag and Nagaina were the names of the two cobras in Rudyard Kipling'sThe Jungle Book.	Eventually both were defeated by the mongoose Rikki- Tikki-Tavi.37 Fred de Stabenrath purportedlyexclaimed thisright before he was ki [xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxpartmissingxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx]4 5 45zarnpano left the rest of this footnote buried beneath a particularly dark spill of ink.	At least I'm assuming it's ink.	Maybe it's not.Maybe it's something else.		But then that's not really important.	In some cases, I've managed to recover the lost text (see Chapter Nine). Here, however, I failed.	Five lines gone along with the rest of Mr. Stabenrath.38   484747Note that luckily in this chapter, Zampano penciled many of the translations for these Greek and Latin quotations into the margins. I've gone ahead and turned them into footnotes.50Exactly!	How the fuck do you write about "exquisite variation" when both passages are exactly the same?I'm sure the late hour has helped, add to that the dim light in my room, or how poorly I've been sleeping, going to sleep but not really resting, if that's possible, though  let me tell  you,  sitting  alone, awake to nothing else but this odd murmuring, like listening to the penitent pray-you know it's a prayer but you miss the words-or better yet listening to a bitter curse, realizing a whole lot wrong's being ushered into the world but still missing the words, me like that,  listening in my way by comparing in his way both Spanish fragments, both written out on brown leaves of paper, or no, that's not right, not brown, more like, oh I don't know, yes brown but in the failing light appearing almost colored or the memory of a color, somehow violent,  or close to that, or not at all, as  I just kept  reading both pieces over and over again, trying to detect at least one differing accent orletter, wanting to detect at least one differing accent or letter, getting almost desperate in that pursuit, only to repeatedly discover perfect similitude, though how can that be, right? if it were perfect it wouldn't be similar it would be identical, and you know what? I've lost this sentence, I can't even finish it, don't know how- Here's the point: the more I focused in on the words the farther I seemed from my room.	No sense where either, until all of a sudden along the edges of my tongue, towards the back of my mouth, I started to taste something extremely bitter, almost metallic.	I began to gag.	I didn't gag, but I was certain I would.		Then I got a whiff of that same something awful I'd detected outside of the Shop in the hall.	Faint as hell at first until I knew I'd smelled it and then it wasn't faint at all.	A whole lot of rot was suddenly packed up my nose, slowly creeping down my throat, closing it off.		I started to throw up, watery chunks of vomit flying everywhere, sluicing out of me onto the floor, splashing onto the wall, even onto this.	Except I only coughed.	I didn't cough. I lightly cleared my throat and then the smell was gone and so was the taste.		I was back in my room again, looking around in the dim light, jittery, disoriented but hardly fooled.I put the fragments back in the trunk.	Walked the perimeter of myroom.	Glass of bourbon.	A toke on a blunt.	There we go.	Bring on the haze.	But who am I kidding?	I can still see what's happening.	My line of defense has not only failed, it failed long ago.	Don't ask me to define the line either or why exactly it's needed or even what it stands in defense against.	I haven't the foggiest idea.This much though I'm sure of: I'm alone in hostile territories with no clue why they're hostile or how to get back to safe havens, an Old Haven, a lost haven, the temperature dropping, the hour heaving pitching towards a profound darkness, while before me my idiotic amaurotic Guide laughs, actually cackles is more like it, lost in his own litany of inside jokes, completely out of his head, out of focus too, zonules of Zinn, among other things, having snapped long ago like piano wires, leaving me with absolutely no sound way to determine where the hell I'm going, though right now going to hell seems like a pretty sound bet.756Hanson Edwin Rose, (Detroit, Michigan: Pneuma Publications, 1989), p. 219. 57These lines have a familiar ring though I've no clue why or where I've heard them before.58 46 62You don't need me to point out the intensely personal nature of this passage.	Frankly I'd of rec'd a quick skip past the whole echo ramble were it not for those six lines,  especially the  last  bit"- perhaps your word-" conjuring up, at least for me, one of those deep piercing reactions, the kind that just misses a ventricle, the old man making his way-feeling his way-around the walls of another evening, a slow and tedious progress but one which begins  to yield,  somehow,  the story of his own creature darkness, taking me completely by surprise, a sudden charge from out of the dullest moment, jaws lunging open,  claws protracting, and just so you understand where I'm coming from, I consider" ..¥	long past midnight"  one claw and "empty hallways" another.Don't worry Lude didn't buy it either but at least he bought a couple of rounds.Two nights ago, we were checking out the Sky Bar, hemorrhaging dough on drinks, but Lude could only cough hard and then laugh real coronary like: "Hoss, a claw's made of bone just like a stilt's made of steel.""Sure" I said.But it was loud there and the crowd kept both of us from hearing correctly.	And while I wanted to believe Lude's basics, I couldn't.There was something just  so  awful in the old man's utterance.	I felt a terrible empathy for him then, living in that tiny place, permeated with the odor of  age,  useless blinks against the darkness.	His word-my word,  maybe even your word-added to this,  and ringing inside me like some awful dream, over and over again, modulating slightly,  slowly pitching my own defenses into something entirely different, until the music of that recurrence drew into relief my own scars drawn long  ago, over two decades ago, and with more than a claw, a stiletto or even an ancient Samuel O'Reilly@ 1891, and these scars torn,  ripped,  bleeding and stuttering-for they are first of  all his  scars-the kind only bars of an EKG can accurately remember, a more precise if  incomplete history, Q waves deflecting downward at what must be considered the commencement of the QRS complex, telling the story of a past infarction, that awful endurance and eventual letting go, the failure which began it all in the first place, probably right after one burning maze but still years ahead of the Other loss, a horrible violence, before the coming of that great Whale, before the final drift, nod,  macking skid,  twist and topple-his own burning-years before the long rest, coming along in its own way,its own nightmare, perhaps even in the folds of another unprotectedsleep (so I like to  imagine),  silvering wings  fragmenting then scattering like fish scales flung on the  jet  stream,  above the clouds and every epic venture still suggested in those delicate, light-cradled borders-Other Lands-sweeping the world like a whisper, a hand, even if salmon scales still slip through words as  easily as  palmed prisms  of salt will always slip through fingers,  shimmering,  raining,  confused, and no matter how spectacular forever unable to prevent his fall, down through the silver,  the salmon,  away from the gold and the myriad of games held in just that word, suggesting it might have even been Spanish gold, though this makes no differance, still tumbling in rem-, dying and-embered, even? or never,  in a different light,  and not waking this time, before the hit, but sleeping right through it,  the slamming into the ground, at terminal velocity too, the pound,  the bounce,  What kind of ground-air emergency code would that mark mean? the opposition of L's? Not understood? Probably just X marks the spot: Unable To48 Proceed-then in the awful second arc  and  second descent,  after the sound, the realization of what Sleep has just now delivered, that bloody handmaiden, this time her toiling fingers wet with boiling deformation, oozing in the mutilations of birth, heartless & unholy, black with afterbirth, miscreated changeling and foul, what no one beside him could prevent, but rather might have even caused, and mine too, this unread trauma, driving him to consciousness with a scream, not even a word, a scream, and even that never heard, so  not  a scream but  the  clutch of life held by will alone, no 911, no call at all, just his own misunderstanding of  the reality that had broken into the Hall,  the silence then of a woman and an only son, describing in an agonizing hour all it takes to let go, broken, bleeding, ragged, twisted,  savaged,  torn and dying too, so permanently wronged, though for how many years gone untold, unseen,  reminiscent of  another silver shape,  so removed and yet so dear, kept on a cold gold chain, years on, this fistful of twitching injured life, finally recovering on its own until eventually like a seed conceived, born and grown, the story of its injured beat survives long enough to destroy and devour by the simple telling of its fall, all his hope, his home, his only love, the very color of his flesh and the dark marrow of his bone."You okay Truant?" Lude asked.But I saw a strange glimmer everywhere, confined to the sharp oscillations of yellow & blue, as if my retinal view suddenly included along with the reflective blessings of  light,  an unearthly collusion with scent & sound, registering all possibilities of harm, every threat, every move, even with all that grinning and meeting and din.A thousand and one possible claws.Of course,  Lude didn't see it.	He was blind.	Maybe even right.We drove down Sunset and soon veered south into the flats.		A party somewhere.	An important gathering of E heads  and coke heads.	Lude would never feel how "empty hallways long past midnight"  could slice inside of you, though I'm not so sure he wasn't sliced up  just the same. Not seeing the  rip doesn't mean you automatically get to keep clear of  the Hey-I'm-Bleeding part.	To feel though, you have to care and as we walked out  onto the blue-lit  patio and discovered a motorcycle sputtering up oil and bubbles from the bottom of the pool while on the diving board two men shoved flakes  of  ice up a woman's bleeding nostrils, her shirt off, her bra nearly transparent, I knew Lude would never care much about the dead.	And maybe he was right.	Maybe some things  are best left untouched.	Of course he didn't know the dead  like I did.	And so when he absconded with a bottle of Jack from the kitchen,  I did my best to join him.	Obliterate my own cavities and graves.But come morning, despite my headache and the vomit on my shirt, Iknew I'd failed.Inside me, a long dark hallway already caressed the other music of  a single word, and what's worse, despite the amazements of chemicals, continued to grow.49 5There is something more at work here, some sort of antitheticalreasoning and proof making, and what about light?, all of which actually made sense to me  at  a certain hour before midnight or at  least came close to making sense.	Problem was Lude interrupted my thoughts when he came over and after much discussion  (not  to mention shots of tequila and a nice haircut) convinced me to share a bag of mushrooms with him and in spite of getting violently ill  in the aisle of a certain 7-Eleven  (me;  not him)  led me to an after hours party where I soon became engrossed in   a green-eyed brunette (Lucy)  who had no intention of  letting our dance end at the club,  and yet even in our sheet twisting,  lightless dance on  my floor,  her own features,  those pale legs,  soft arms,  the fragile collar bone tracing a shadow of (-can't write the word-), invariably became entwined and permanently??? entangled,  even entirely replaced??? by images of a completely different woman; relatively new, or not new atall, but for reasons unknown to me still continuing to endure as a center to my thoughts; her--first encountered in the company of Lude and my boss at a place  my boss  likes to call The Ghost.	The problem is that in his mind The Ghost actually refers to two places:  The Garden of Eden on La Brea and  The Rainbow Bar  & Grill on Sunset.		How or why this came about is impossible to trace.	Private nomenclature seems to rapidly develop in tight set-upon circles, though truth be told we were only set-upon on a good day, and tight here should be taken pretty loosely.How then, you ask, do you know what's being referred to when The Ghost gets mentioned?You don't.You just end up at one or the other. Often the Rainbow. Though  not always the Rainbow. You see, how my boss defines The Ghost varies from day to day, depending mostly on his moods and appetites.Consequently, the previously mentioned "pretty loosely" should probably be struck and re-stated as "very, very loosely."Anyway, what I'm about to tell you happened on one of those rare evenings when we actually all  got together.	My boss was chattering incessantly about his junk days in London and how he'd contemplated sobriety and what those contemplations had  been like.	Eventually he detoured into long winded non-stories  about his Art  School experiences in Detroit,-lots of  "Hey,  my thing for that whole time thing was really a kinda art thing or  something"-which was  about when I hauled out my pad of sketches, because no matter what you made of his BS you still couldn't fault him for  his work.	He was one of best, and every tatted local knew it.Truth be known, I'd been waiting for this chance for a while, keen  on getting his out-of-the-Shop perspective on my efforts, and what  efforts they were-diligent designs sketched over the months, intended someday to live in skin, each image carefully wrapped and coiled incolors of cinnabar, lemon,  celadon and indigo, incarnated in the  scales of dragons, the bark of  ancient  roods,  shields welded by generations cast aside in the oily umber of shadow & blood not to speak of lifeless trees prevailing against indifferent skies or colossal vessels asleep in prehistoric sediment, miles beneath even the faintest suggestion of light-at least that's how I would describe them-every one meticulously rendered on tracing paper, cracking like fire whenever touched, a multitude of pages, which my boss briefly examined before handing them back to me."Take up typing," he grunted. Well that's nice, I thought.At least the next step was clear.Some act of violence would be necessary.And so it was that before another synapse could fire within my bad-off  labyrinthine brain, he was  already lying on the floor.	Or I should say his mangled body was  lying on the floor.	His head remained in my hands.	Twisted off  like a cap.	Not as difficult as I'd imagined. The first turn definitely the toughest, necessitating the breaking of cervical vertebrae and the snapping of the spinal cord, but after that, another six or so turns,  and voila-the head was off.		Nothing could be easier.	Time to go bowling.My boss smiled.	Said hello.But he wasn't smiling or saying hello to me.Somehow she was already standing there, right in front of him, right in front of me, talking to him, reminiscing, touching his shoulder, even winking at me and Lude.Wow.	Out of nowhere.	Out of the blue.Where had  she come from?	Or for that matter, when?Of course my boss didn't introduce her.	He just left me to gape. I couldn't even imagine twisting off his head for a second time as that would of meant losing sight  of her.	Which I found myself quite unwilling to do.Fortunately, after that evening, she began dropping by the Shop alot, always wearing these daisy sunglasses and each time taking me completely off guard.She  still drives me nuts.	Just thinking of her now and I'm lost, lost in the smell of her, the way of her and everything she conjures up inside me, a mad rush of folly  & oddly muted  lusts,  sensations sublimated faster than I can follow, into-- oh hell  I don't know what into, I probably shouldn't even be using a word like  sublimate,  but that's beside the point,  her hair reminding me of  a shiny gold desert wind brazed in a hot August sun, hips curving like coastal norths, tits rising and falling beneath her blue sweatshirt the way an ocean will do long after the  storm has passed.		(She's always a little out of breath when she climbs the  flight of  stairs  leading up to the Shop.)	One glance at her, even now in the glass of my mind, and I want to take off, travel with her, who knows where either, somewhere, my desire suddenly informed by something deeper, even unknown,  pouring into me,  drawn off some peculiar reserve, tracing thoughts  of  the drive she and I would take, lungs  full  of that pine rasping air,  outracing something unpleasant, something burning,  in  fact the entire coast along with tens of thousands of acres of inland forest is  burning but we're  leaving, we're getting away, we're free,  our hands battered by the clutch of  holding on-I don't know what to, but holding just the same-and cheeks streaked with wind tears; and now that I think of it I guess we are on a motorcycle, a Triumph?, isn't that what Lude always talks about buying?, ascending into colder but brighter climes,  and  I don't know anything about bikes  let  alone how to drive one.	And there  I go again.		She does that to me.	Like I already said, drives me nuts."Hello?"That was  the  first word she ever said to me in the Shop.	Not like "Hi" either.	More like "Hello, is  anyone home?" hence the question mark.	 I wasn't even looking at her when she said it, just staring blankly down  at my equally blank pad of tracing paper, probably thinking something similar to all those ridiculous, sappy thoughts  I just now recounted, about road trips and forest fires and motorcycles, remembering her, even though she was right there in front of me, only a few feet away."Hey asshole," my boss shouted.	"Hang up her fucking pants.What's the matter with you?"Something would have to be done about him.But before I could hurl him through the plate glass window into the traffic below, she smiled and handed me her bright pink flip-flops  & white Adidas sweats.	My boss was lucky.	This magnificent creature had just saved his life.Gratefully I received her clothes, lifting them from her fingers tips like they were some sacred vesture bestowed upon me by the Virgin Mary herself. The hard part, I found, was trying not to stare too long