Once, in the dining hall of a certain boarding school-it was my second and nothing fancy-I met a ghost.	I'd been talking with two friends, but due to all the seven o'clock din, the place being packed with fellow gorgers, it was almost impossible to hear much of what anyone said, unless you shouted, and we weren't shouting because ourconversation had to be kept secret. Not that what we said'puoppJ-'1S W OJIJ!M offered a whole lot of anything new.,,..ast_s_e'!""! m"_ _ _ _ ... "',"""'-r-r"e" _S,IJJOJV_ r...1,,""- """.. PJVl(_;JJN Not even variation.tt g, co o_u_r_e1     0	, s e '11,fSJJM H Jt11t1J Girls.	leveling, mortar, high early-strength, san	'.itll/OJPJVMP3 That was all.		One word to pretty much sum up the whole of all we cared about.	Week in, week out. Where to meet them.		What to say to them.	How not to need them.	That was unattractive.	Girls could never know you needed them, which was why our conversation had to be kept secret, because that's all it was about: needing them.'WO lfSJ EJ Stl[JOI{:) 'sJS.Jn,S UlfOf 't1JVM W O!l!M  '1unJEJ UVA ,(JUtlH 'ss;,um.1 'fUlJ.Jd ¥,<;,uu;,rUOJOEJ "7 WOJ!l!M 'IOONerringbone, inlaid, basket weave, Aren /t1Juoa 'uo,1.mnsrg, Chantilly, or Versailles parquet; i tCJUtlH SJn<rJact no wood anywhere, whether redwood 'Wr)J;JJV Utll/Od Back then, I was living life like a ghost, though not the ghostreated   western   hemlock,   yellow   pine   Stl/JO lf:) 'pOOlltl Vedar,  wood-polymer,  Engelmann  spruce   StlJJO lf:) 'pOtlJV I'm about to tell you about.	I was all numb & stupid and dazed too IPJOjJtllfJnN WVJIJ!M'tl/JlfM p.Jojums guess, a pretty spookY silentiarynever for matters I knew by heart but could	quite       translate for anyone I knew let alone myself.	I constantly craved the comforts of feminine attention, even though the thought of actually getting a girlfriend, one who was into me and wanted to be with me, seemed about as real as any dozen of the myths I'd been reading about in class.At least the same guy who explained my attachment to junk, The Counselor For Disaffected You-I mean Youth-, helped me see how influenced I remained by my past.Unfortunately it was a lesson delivered tongue in cheek, as he ultimately believed I'd made most of my past up just to impress him.About one thing he was right, my mother wasn't actually dead yet.	Telling everyone she was though made my life fa.r less complicated.	I don't think anyone at the boarding school, including my friends, teachers, certainly not my counselor, ever found out the truth, which was fine with me. That's the way I liked it.My arms,  however, were another story.		It's kinda funny, but despite my current professional occupation,  I don't have any tattoos.		Just the scars, the biggest ones of course being the ones you know about, this strange seething melt running from the inside of both elbows all the way up to the end of both wrists, where--! might as well tell you-a skillet of sizzling corn oil unloaded its lasting wrath on my efforts to keep it from the kitchen floor.	¥You tried to catch it all,¥ my mother had often said of that afternoon  when I was only four.	See, not nearly as dramatic as a Japanese Martial Arts Cult run by Koreans in Indiana.	I mean Idaho.	Just a dropped pan.	That's all.As for the rest of the scars, there are too many tostart babbling on about here, jagged half-moon reminders on my shoulders and shins, plenty stippled on my bones, a solemnUlfOf '1Jt1q[JD SSlJ:) '.itlJU[nos s;,7nr 'tl/l!P?S/nTJJ '01JOH JOPJA '.iO>fUOH 1noJ ';,SoJJtlEJsn.J] -white one intersecting my eyebrow, another obvious one still evident in my broken, now discolored front tooth, a central incisor to be more precise, and someeven deeper than all of the above, telling a tale ------- --------- much	longer than anyone has ever:,2, :,010 m:,1 1:, , :,,uo oo ,gmil:!12Jes heard or probably ever will hear.bns2 ,rllgn:,1J2-'(bs:,rlgirl,rnJ1om ,gnil:,v:, All of it true too, though of course:,:,rl210 ,oilus1b'(ri,oit2slq ,bas2 soili2 ,xi	scars are much harder to read.	Their J:iq,so ,wddu1 ,ossn:,J ,:iii!1h00 ,:iii!,l'(ni complex inflections do not resemble liluqs ,:,Jsla,:,noJ2 oims1:,o ,'(Xoq:, ,gná the reductive ease of any tattoo, no dnsQ-:,Jirlw 1:,riJ:,rlw ,:,ld1sm 10 ,psvisi matter how extensive, colorful or o-srnns:::> 10 ,:,luY obs10l0::::> ,lsi1:iqm l elaborate the design.	Scars are the,:,vo1:,riJ:irlw ,boowb,srl10 ;n:,:,1g10 ibsl  paler pain of survival, received 0 ,alnioL :,Jsn,:,Jlsrlliw gabooH qi112 ,v_s unwillingly and displayed in thelanguage of injuryá n:,1A ,:ivs:,w J:,Jl2sd ,bislni ,:iaodgni,,:,My Counselor For Disaffected Youth ni ;r:iuprnq 2:,llis21:,V10 ,'(lliJasrl'.),g1:, had no idea what kept me going- ,boowb:,1 1:irlJ:,rlw ,:,,:,rlw'(nSboow on los though he never phrased it exactly,:iaiq woll:,'( ,lloolm:irl n,:,Jz:,w b:,Js:,1 like that.	He just asked me how, in ,:iou1q2 nnsml:,ga3. ,1:im'(loq-boow ,rnb:, light of all my stories, I'd still1-------..--------- managed	to sustain myself. I couldn'tanswer him.	I know one thing though, Grande  in    Venice,   or  the   Francois   I gallery atwhenever I felt particularly bad I'd instantly clingto a favorite daydream, one I was willing to revisit constantly, a pretty vivid one too, of a girl, a certain girl, though one I'd yet to meet or even see, whose eyes would sparkle just like the Northern sky I would describe for her when once while sitting on a splintered deck heaving on top of the black-pitch deck of the world, I beheld all the light not of this world.Which was when, as I was briefly revisiting this same daydream in the presence of my two friends, I heard a voice in my ear-the ghost-softly saying my name.By the way, this is what got me on this whole jag in the first place.	The knocking in the house returning this vivid recollection.¥Johnny¥ she said in a sigh even more gentle than a whisper.I looked around.	No one sitting at my table was saying anything even remotely like my name.Quite the contrary, their voices were pitched insome egregiously felt debate over something havingto do with scoring, the details of which I know I'll never recall, thrown up amidst the equally loud banter of a hundred plates, glasses, knives	and forks clattering here and there, and yes everywhere, serving to quickly dispel my illusion until it happened again-  UIOJ/JiJ8 'µaqJ!Dsso:)  'pooy puow,<n-NáauuqaoN UOJSUJlfSOMás11<>t110Hprnw UlfOf 'JiJJ(/OM  SOUIOI/J, lfd/ON'iJ.IZUiJ'f;JIJW    J /\\iJJPUV '"Johnny.¥For an instant then, I understood she was my ghost, a seventeen year old with gold braided hair, as wild as a will-o'-the-wisp, encountered many years'sa<11/JOOA :I ua11da1sáuuaw9 1noc1 áua,vUOA UIDJll!M 'UlfD)l 1Jaq,v 'a1110H a8Joa9 l""""""""'n-,-.s.."'"  -::  ,...."m" .-   "'"- ""  """"""'  "" - --,ð""""""'Y"ð áaso:mry Ulllfl/!M ago, maybe even in another life, nowout emagno 1a,ora encountered again, and perhaps here too to find me and restore me to some former self lost on some day no boy can ever really remember-something I write now not really even understanding though liking the sound of it just the same.'"He's so dreamy.	I just lovethe way he smiles when he talks, even if he doesn't say that much.¥Which was when I realized,a moment later, that this Ghost was none other than the domed ceiling,rising above the dining hall,pruce, alpine fir, american beech, northern 'uowjfOH 8JMpn7 ed oak, Canada Hemlock, red maple, ¥1assaw p<>Jj,v ugar maple, eastern white pine, butternut '.lalf:JSJ.:JJOP0¡1f.L ickory, shagbark hickory, american plan	'.lalf::,owmpsree, eastern black walnut, ponderosa pine, ZIJJ.:/ ¥zwuoghite fir, northern catalpa, common bald JnOJ 'SUiJJlfiJ8 JiJ1iJJ ypress, american sweet gum, bur oak, Cal- :z1.1wips ounJi?' "fornia  live  oak   mahogany  Douglas  fa   3JZJiJ OJ  SUDH  2Jag astern cottonw od; nor an/sign of a sub' 7¡W 'JnDJ, ounJg oor, sheathing. drywall, any kind of insu ,UlfOS/apuaw :JfJ:f ating material, polyicynene or other; sills, ,Ullffl8 Sn'fJUJUloaill plates, sill sealer, rebar, anchor bolts, let ,aðuJJTJ8 1lone  footings  or  foundation  walls:  o   "JiJ flH ZJJJ.:J  'fJiJJ)l  somehow carrying with particular vividness, from the far wall to myap /iJl(:JJJ,V 'i(aJ,V Jap uoit UOI/Of 'snJdOJD wall, in one magnificent arc, the confession of a girl I would never see or hear again, aconfession I could not even respond to-except here, if this counts.Sadly enough, my understanding of the rare acoustic dynamics in that hall came a fraction of a second too late, coinciding with the end of dinner, the voice vanishing assuddenly as it appeared, lost in a cumulative leaving, sothat even as I continued to scan the distant edge of thedining room or the line forming to deposit trays, I could never find the girl whose expressions or even gestures might match such sentiments.Of course, ghostly voices don't just have to rely exclusively on domed ceilings.They don't even have to be just voices.I finally hooked up with Ashley.	I went over to her place yesterday morning.	Early.	She lives in Venice.	Her eyebrows look like flakes of sunlight.	Her smile, I'm sure, burnt Rome to the ground.		And for the life of me I didn't know who she was or where we'd met.	For a moment I wondered if she was that voice.	But before she said even a word, she held my hand and led me through her house to a patio overgrown with banana trees and rubber plants.	Black, decomposing leaves covered the ground but a large hammock hung above it all.We sat down together and I wanted to talk.	I wanted to ask her who she was, where we'd met,  been before,  but she just smiled and held my hand as we sat down on the hammock and started to swing above all those dead leaves.		She kissedJiJJ/DM '.Jai<aw S;JUUDHáamqsaoa UOi\ OiJl(J, ái<aoN-t</OlfOJ,V 9/ZSlJ7 'so07 jjopy 'pnQ J"ff ''fOp na snUJJOJ,V UliJll!M 'p/iM/iJJN/JJJ<>D 'dUID'fUiJJl(D.:J J!Ul:;J 'MOUiJSS'<1J,lf:JJJUfiJH '.Jaads /Jaq,v '.JiJfJr]J)l SiJUUl{Of JiJJ/DA:1. 'S?/\liJ V :JJJ?P?J.:fáS'iJJJOI{:)'SJIITJG Jnlf/JV á,uaSJas iJUaN '1aJJaJ aisnanv'anb1qauuay S'JO:JUDJ:J '.JiJJUJOD i<uo.1 áaao11nos JJUiJH  'noaJDlf:) iJJJiJ!cJ 'sua11a1s-1a11ow JJaqON 'JD:JJn7 ,JJpUJf 'UOUJnOJ,1noc1 'JJadx3 JJuay-JaSoN 'doJi<N Uf/JDJ,V '8Jaq1so JTJUSDN 'UOUl/1/0M	/<1DJS'/SJD7 '1UJ/)l-U;JSUiJf Ul/iJlf/!A JiJPiJd 'JU!/)[ aJDD)l áuaJSpuJ7 S'OUIJJf 'snmasa9 UDUIJiJH 'UOS:JJJ:f PJJflJS ''f:JUOS SJD7 'WJSJiJ/iJd/JO:)  'UiJS'UIOI/J,PJDIIP:J'uaaoy  'EID '.liJ>(SJd i<o)l 'uuownog /itOJ 'Juozzog amsa:) '011:1,1uos 01uo1uv 'fUJ/UiJ:JDJd Ofd 'JUJ/UiJ: )l)Jd 0/liJ:JJDW 'JJJOZZiJJ:f"O 'ouoSoJ add;,sn19 'JUOZZDJ,V 0/0JZuv 'OJznJ,V1uuoitOJD 'suai<m7 UJt11p3 the Holy Cross, choir of Cologne cathedral,Oxford New College,or Harlech Castle in Gwynnedd North Wales, Stokesay Castle in Shropshire,the Great Hall of Penhurst Placein Kent, the King's College Chapel in Cambridge, Westmi.nster Hall in the Palace of Westminster, the vaulting of Henry Vil chapel at Westminster,St Stephen'schapel,interiorat Glouces- tercathedral,or the interioroctagon at Ely cathedral, the north porch of St. Mary Redcliffein Bristol,the Exeter cathedral,vault at the Wells cathedral, West- minster Abbey, St Hugh's choir vaults in Lincolncathedral,Palaciodellnfan- ro-,-_s1_0.,o..""'- ,-s "1-o - s -mWax, for his part, tries to be brave, forcing a smile for the camera, even if it is impossible to miss how pale he looks or misunderstand the meaning of his request- "Jed, man, I'm so thirsty"-especially since a few sec- onds earlier he had swallowed a big gulp of water.- -m a..,J._u._o 2_ _,1_s1_o""""Ime once and then suddenly sneezed,  a tado at Guadalajara, the Canterbury	cathedral,ll1 5 .rl!100 ,rl05 ;,.u1 ll601¥1:>m s ,l"u :im¥q[s ,:,01J1q'.) ,:iltiny beautiful sneeze, which made her smile even more and my heart started  Rouen's Palais de Justice,  ,:ilqs m   b:i1 ,:iloo lm 5 H s bs ns	s o  b5the house of Jacques Coeur	lum:inud ,aoiq 51irlw m 5 ,283 ,:ilqs m ,s gu hurting because I couldn't share her at Bourges, Bristol cathe-  ans lq os oh :im s ,'{lO:iloirl:il1.&dgs r12 ,'{lo :ioli  happiness,  not knowing what it was,  dral, Albi cathedral'sFlam- boyant south porch, the,amáq s2015 bno q ,Ju nIs w ..,o.s Id 1115 !265 ,55 1 bls d no m m o o ,s q [S!s o m 5 dlio n ,,ft :ilirlor why it was or who for that matter I was-to her.	So I lay there  church of St-Maclou inRouen, the Paris Sainte--Is '.),:ils o ,ud ,m u g f::i::i2wns oiw m s ,22 5 1 Q'<'. hurting,  even when she sat on top of  Chapelle. the church of St-  ,1il 2BlguoO ,xns gorls m   ,:islo 5 vil simo l dress, and her with no underwear and Urbain, Sees cathedral, -du2 B 1o i 2 xns 1 00 ;bo ow oo H o o m::i!2 s me doing nothing as her hands briefly Notre-Dame,Amiens cathe- -u2 ni1o bni:il'{OB ,lls w '{lb ,3nir!Js 5 rf2 ,100 unbuttoned my jeans and pulled me out dral, Reims cathedral.Laon ,2lli2 ;15 rfJo 1 0 :in:inxoi'(loq ,Js i,5 Js m gniJs of my underwear, placing me where itcathedral, Soissons cathe¥ J5 (,2Jlod 1orlons ,1s d5 1 ,wfs 5 2 lli2 ,25!s lq was rough and dry, until she sank  dral, or the nave of Noyon2 lb o	011 o1( down without a gasp, and then it was  cathedral,oreventheambu- 10 ; 1s w noi!snu 1 12g ilo5110 latory of St. Denis, nor for	wet , and she was wet , and we were that matter elements of the	wet, rocking together beneath a small Carolingianand Romanesque such as the Pisa baptis-	patch of overcast sky, brightening fast, her eyes tery or cathedral or the cathedral at Lucca, or the	watching the day come, one hand kneading her dress, Leaning Tower of Pisa. S. Miniato al Monte or the	the other hand under her dress needing herself, her baptistery in Florence, S. Ambrogio in Milan. the	blonde hair covering her face, her knees tightening campanile and baptistery of the Parma cathedral,	around my ribs, until she finally met that calendrical Salamanca's Old Cathedral. the cloister of Sto	coming without a sound-the only sign-and then even Domingo de Silos,fortifiedwalls of Avila, kitchen at	though I had not come, she kissed me for the last FontevraultAbbey, Angers, church and monastery at	time and climbed out of the hammock and went inside. Loarre, St-Gilles-du-Gardin Provence, cathedral ofAuton, Poitiers' Notre-Dame-la-Grande, abbeyBefore I left she told me our story: where we'd  church of La Madeleine in Vezelay, Angouleme's	met-Texas-kissed,	but never made love and this had cathedral,abbey church at Cluny, cathedral of Santi-	confused her and haunted her and she had needed to do ago de Compostela, St-Serio in Toulouse. Portico de	it before she got married which was in four months to laG16ria,SantiagodeCompostela,ConquesSte-Foy, a man she loved who made a living manufacturing TNT the staircaseof thechapter-houseinBeverley,the inte-	exclusively for a highway construction firm up in rior of the chapter-house in Bristol, the Durham	Colorado where he frequently went on business trips cathedral,St John's Chapel, White Tower, Tower of	and where one night, drunk, angry and disappointed he London, Winchestercathedral,Lincolncathedral,the	had invited a hooker back to his motel room and so on abbey church of Notre-Dame.Jumieges. Florence'sS.	and who cared and what was I doing there anyway?	I Miniato al Monte, Dijon St-Benigne,ambulatory of St-Philibert in Toumus. St. Mark's cathed ral in Venice. St. Basil'scathedralin Moscow. abbey churchleft, considered jerking off, finally got around to it back at my place though in order to pop I had to  of Maria Laach. cathedral of Trier, Basilica of s.	think of Thumper.	It didn't help.	I was still ApollinareNuovo. Ravenna, the dome of the Palatine	hurting, abandoned, drank three glasses of bourbon chapel, interiorof cathedral, Speyer, St. Michael in	and fumed on some weed, then  Colosseum, the sanctuary of Fortuna Primige- nia, Praeneste with its axonometric reconstruction, the Temple of Vesta at Tivoli, the Forum Boarium in Rome. the Maison Carree at Nimes. or the House of the Vettii in Pompeii. the walls of Hercu- laneum. the terrace of Naxian Lions on Delos, the The Navidson Record. Simple Themes without Paestum, the of the Terra Armata hut which is also a good place to end though of course it cannot end there either- 14 7165Mr. Truant refused to reveal whether the following bizarre textual layout is Zampano's or his own. - Ed.'pvaa ZuJA/1 aq1 Jo 111Z!N:mou :>Je asnoq S,UOSP!AllN 8u!1une4 s1so48 :141 JO s:>WllU :141  1e41 U0!1Sal!8ns:141  01 :,suods:>J UJ,, ::>)OJA\wn1qu:>SOl1     (:>tuea    '89Sal(lly.j lJ,, hl!SS:l S!I{ UJ9 9 1 Concepcion Victoria  Santo Antonia Concepcion LPI   l88Which also stands for Technological Neural Transmitters (TNT) !89 - another pun and another story altogether.l89or what as Lude once pointed out also means Tits And Tail. i.e. alsoexplosive. i.e. orgasmic. i.e. a sudden procreating pun which turns everything into something entirely else, which now as I catch up with myself, where I've gone and where I haven't gone and what I better get back to, may very well have not been a pun at all but plain and simple just the bifurcation of truth,  with an ampersand tossed in for unity.	A sperm twixt another form of similar unity, and look there's an echo at haand.	The articulation of conflict may very well be a better thing uponwhich to stand-Truth & Truth 'z all,  after all,  or not at all.	In other words, just as Zampano wrote it. 196190Jennifer Kale told me she'd visited Zampano around seven times: ¥Heliked me to teach him filmic words.	You know, film crit kind of stuff. Straight out of Christian Metz and the rest of that crew.	He also liked me to read him some of the jokes I'd gotten on the Internet.	Mostly though I just described movies I'd recently seen.¥	Eraser was one of them.146  The Navidson Record, l950espite claiming in Chapter One that ¥the more interesting material dwells exclusively on the interpretation of events within the film,¥ Zampano has still wandered into his own discussion of "the antinomies of factor fiction,representation or artifice,document or prank" within The Nayidson Record. 196	I have no idea whether it's on purpose or not.	Sometimes I'm certain it is.	Other times I'm sure it's just one big fucking train wreck.l96195 (cont.) Which, in case you didn't realize, has everything to do withthe story of Connaught B. N. S. Cape who observed four asses winnow the air ..¥ for as we know there can only be one conclusion, no matter the labor, the lasting trace, the letters or even the faith-no daytime, no starlight, not even a flashlight to the rescue-just, that's it, so long folks, one grand kerplunk, even if Mr. Cape really did come across four donkeys winnowing the air with their hooves ... Thoughts blazing through my mind while I was walking the aisles at the Virgin Megastore, trying to remember a tune to some words, changing my mind to open the door instead, some door, I don't know which one either except maybe one of the ones inside me, which was when I found Hailey, disturbed face, incredible body, only eighteen, smoking like a steelmill, breath like the homeless but eyes bright and pure and she had anincredible body and I said hello and on a whim invited her over to my place to listen to some of the CD's I'd just bought, convinced she'd decline, surprised when she accepted, so over she came, and we put on the music and smoked a bowl and called Pink Dot though they didn't arrivewith our sandwiches and beer until we were already out of our clothes and under the covers and coming like judgment day (i.e. for the second time) and then we ate and drank and Hailey smiled and her face seemed less disturbed and her smile was naked and gentle and peaceful and as I felt myself drift off next to her, I wanted her to fall asleep next to me,but Hailey didn't understand and for some reason when I woke up a little later, she was already gone, leaving neither a note nor a number.A few days later, I heard her on KROQ's Love Line, this time drenched in purple rain, describing to Doctor Drew and Adam Carolla how I-¥this guy in a real stale studio with books and writing everywhere, everywhere! and weird drawings all over his walls too, all in black. Icouldn't understand any of it.¥-had dozed off only to start screaming andyelling terrible things in his sleep, about blood and mutilations and other crazy%&#@, which had scared her and had it been wrong of her to leave even though when he'd been awake he'd seemed alright?An ugly shiver ripped up my back then.	All this time I'd believed the cavorting and drinking and sex had done away with that terrible onslaught of fear.	Clearly I was wrong.	I'd only pushed it off into another place.	My stomach turned.	Screaming things was bad enough, but the thought that I'd also frightened someone I felt only tenderness for made it far worse.Did I scream every night? What did I say? And why in the hell149 couldn't I remember any of it in the morning?I checked to make sure my door was locked.	Returned a second later to put on the chain.	I need more locks.	My heart started hammering.	I retreated to the corner of my room but that didn't help.	Fuck, fuck,fuck-wasn't helping either.	Better go to the bathroom, try some water on the face, try anything.	Only I couldn't budge.	Something was approaching.	I could hear it outside.	I could feel the vibrations.	It was about to splinter its way through the Hall door, my door, Walker in Darkness, from whose face earth and heaven long ago fled.Then the walls crack. All my windows shatter. A terrible roar.More like a howl more like a shriek. My eardrums strain and split.The chain snaps.I'm desperately trying to crawl away,  but it's too late.	Nothing can be done now.That awful stench returns and with it comes a scene, filling my place, painting it all anew, but with what? And what kind of brushes are being used?	What sort of paint? And why that smell?Oh no.How do I know this? I cannot know this.The floor beneath me fails into a void.Except before I fall what's happening now only reverts to what was supposed to have happened which in the end never happened at all.	The walls have remained, the glass has held and the only thing that vanished was my own horror, subsiding in that chaotic wake always left by even the most rational things.Here then was the darker side of whim. I tried to relax.I tried to forget.I imagined some world-weary travelers camped on the side of some desolate road,  in some desolate land,  telling a story to allay their doubts, encircle their fears with distraction, laughter and song, a collective illusion of vision spun above their portable hearth of tinder & wood, their eyes gleaming with divine magic, born where perspective lines finally collude,  or so they think.	Except those stars are never born on such far away horizons as that.	The light in fact comes from their own gathering and their own conversation, surrounding and sustaining the fire they have built and kept alive through the night, until inevitably, come morning, cold and dull, the songs are all sung, the stories lost or taken, soup eaten, embers dark.	Not even the seeds of one pun are left to capriciously turn the mind aside and tropos is at the center of ¥trope¥ and it means ¥turn.¥Though here's a song they might of sung:Mad woman on another tour;Everything she is she spits on the floor.An old man tells me she's sicker than the rest. God I've never been afraid like this.Heart may still be the fire in hearth but I'm suddenly too cold to continue, and besides, there's no hearth here anyway and it's the end of June.	Thursday.	Almost noon.		And all the but tons on my corduroy coat are gone.	I don't know why.	I'm sorry Hailey. 197 I don't know what to do.The locks may have held, the chain too, but my room still stinks of gore, a flood of entrails spread from wall to wall, the hacked remains of hooves and hands, matted hair and bone, used to paint the ceiling, drench the floor. The chopping must have gone on for days to leave only this.Not even the flies settle for long.	Connaught B. N. S. Cape has been murdered along with his donkeys but nobody knows by whom.For as we know, there cannot be an escape.I'm too far from here to know anything or anyone anymore. I don't even know myself.-Ed.    (Bauen Wohnen, 206which you are quite right to observe makes no sense at all.173 174 Progressive Architecture, 210J. Piaget and B. lnhelder's (New York: Basic Books, 1960), p. 6.177 No doubt about that.		My fear's gotten worse.	Hearing Hailey describing my screams on the radio like that has really upset me.	I no longer wake up tired.	I wake up tired and afraid.	I wonder if the morning rasp in my voice is just from sleep or rather some inarticulate attempt to name my horror.		I'm suspicious of the dreams I cannot remember,  the words only others can hear.		I've also noticed the inside of my cheeks are now all mutilated, lumps of pink flesh dangling in the wet dark,  probably from grinding, gritting and so much pointless chewing.	My teeth ache.		My head aches.	My stomach's a mess.I went to see a Dr. Ogelmeyer a few days ago and told him  everything I could think of about my attacks and the awful anxiety that haunts my every hour.	He made an appointment for me with another doctorand then prescribed some medication.	The whole thing lasted less than half an hour and including the prescription cost close to a hundred and seventy-five dollars.I tore up the appointment card and when I got back to my studio I grabbed my radio/ CD player and put it out on the street with a For Sale sign on it.	An hour later, some guy driving an Infiniti pulled over and bought it  for forty-five dollars.	Next, I took all my CDs to Aaron's on Highland and got almost a hundred dollars.I had no choice.	I need the money.	I also need the quiet.As of  now,  I still haven't taken the medicine.	It's a low-grade sedative of some kind.		Ten flakes of chalk-blue.	I hate them.	Perhaps when night comes  I'll change my mind.	I arrange them in a tidy line on the kitchen counter.	But night finally does  come  and even though my fear ratchets towards the more severe, I fear those pills even more.Ever since leaving the labyrinth, having had to endure all those convolutions, those incomplete suggestions, the maddening departures and inconclusive nature of the whole  fucking chapter,  I've craved space, light  and some kind of clarity.	Any kind of clarity.	I just don't know how to find it, though staring over at those awful tablets only amps my resolve to do something, anything.Funny as it sounds-especially considering the amounts  of  drugs I've been proud to consume-those pills, like dots, raised particular, look more and more like some kind of  secret Braille spelling out the end of my life.Perhaps if I had insurance; if one hundred and seventy-five dollars meant I was twenty-five over my deductible, I'd think differently.	But it's not and so I don't.As far as I can see, there's no place for me in this  country's system of health, and even if there were I'm not sure it would make a difference.	Something I considered over and over again while I was sitting in that stark office, barely looking at the National Geographicor People magazines, just waiting on the bustle of procedure and paper work, until  the time came,  quite a bit of time too,  when I had to answer a call, a call made by a nurse, who led me down a hall and then another hall and still another hall, until I found myself  alone  in  a cramped sour smelling room, where I waited again, this time on a slightlydifferent set of procedures and routines carried out by these white draped ministers of medicine, Dr.Ogelmeyer & friends, who by their very absence forced me to wonder what would happen if  I were really unhealthy, as unhealthy as I am now poor,  how much longer would I have to wait, how much more cramped and sour would this room be, and if I wanted to leave would I?		Could I?	Perhaps I wouldn't even know how to leave.	Incarcerated forever within the corridors of some  awful facility.	5051.	Protective custody.	Or just as terrifying: no 5051, no protective custody.	Left to wander alone the equally ferocious and infernal corridors of indigence.To put it politely: no fucking way. I know what it means to go mad.I'll die before I go there.But first I have to find out if that's where I'm really heading. I've got to stop blinking in the face of my fear.I must hear what I scream.I must remember what I dream.I pick up the sedatives, these Zs without z, and one by one crush them between my fingers,  letting the dust fall  to the floor.	Next I locate all  the alcohol I have buried around my studio and pour it down  the sink.	Then I root out every seed and bud of pot and flush it down  the toilet along with the numbers of  all suppliers.	I eventually find a few tabs of old acid as well as some Ecstasy hidden in a bag of rice.These I also toss.The consumption of MOMA, aka Ecstasy, aka E,  aka x,  has been known to bring on epilepsy especially when taken in  large quantities.	Eight months ago, I ingested more than my fair share,  mostly White Angels, though I also went ahead and invited to the party a slew of Canaries, Stickmen, Snowballs, Hurricanes, Hallways, Butterflies, Tasmanian Devils and Mitsubishis, which was a month long party, all of it pretty much preceding Thanksgiving, and a different story altogether.There are so many storiesPerhaps I'll be lucky and discover this awful dread that gnaws on  me day and night is nothing more than the shock wave caused by too many crude chemicals rioting in my skull  for too long.	Perhaps by cleaning out my system I'll come to a clearing where  I can ease myself into  peace.Then again perhaps in finding my clearing I'll only make myself an easier prey for the real terror that tracks me, waiting beyond the perimeter, past the tall grass, the brush,  that  stand of trees,  cloaked in shadow and rot,  but with enough presence to resurrect within me a whole set of ancient reflexes, ordering a non-existent protrusion at the base of my spine to twitch, my pupils already dilating,  adrenaline flowing, even as instinct commands me to run.But by then it will already be  too late.	The distance far too great to cover.	As if there ever really was a place to hide.At least I'll have a gun. I'll buy a gun.Then I'll crouch and I will wait.Outside shots are fired.	Lots.	In fact one sounds like an artillery cannon going off.	Suddenly the city's at war and I'mconfused.	When I go to my window a spray of light sets me straight, though the revelation is not without irony.Somehow the date escaped me. It's July 4th.This country's birthday.	Wow.Which I realize means  I forgot my own birthday.	A day that came and passed,  it turns out,  in of  all places Hailey's arms.	How about that, I can remember the beginnings of a nation that doesn't give a flying fuck about me, would possibly even strangle me if given half the chance, but I can't  remember my own beginnings-and I'm probably the only one alive willing to at least  attempt on my behalf that tricky flying fuck maneuver.Which might be worth some sort of smile, if  I hadn't already come to realize that irony is a Maginot Line drawn by the alreadycondemned-which oddly enough still does make me smile.