249Taking into account Chapter Six,  only Tom's creatures,  born out  of the absence of light, shaped with his bare hands, seem able to exist in that place, though all of them are as mutable as  letters,  as  permanent as fame,  a strange little bestiary lamenting nothing,  instructing no one, revealing the outline of lives really only visible to the imagination.And tonight as I copied this scene down, I began to feel very bad.Maybe because Tom's antics only temporarily transform that place into something other than itself, though even that transformation is  not without its own peculiar horror; for no matter how many creatures he  flings on the wall of his tent, no matter how large or how real they may appear,  they still all perish in a flood of darkness.	No Noah's ark.Nothing safe.	No way to survive.	Which may have had something to do with my outburst at the Shop today.I was  in some weird kind of jittery daze.	Everyone was there, Thumper, my boss,  the usual visitants, along with  some depraved biker who was  in the middle of getting an octopus carved into  his deltoid.	He kept blathering on about the permanence of  ink which I guess really got  to me because I started howling, and loud  too-real  loud-spit sputtering off my lips, snot shooting out of my nose."Permanent?" I shouted.	"Are you fucking loopy, man?"Everyone was shocked.	The biker could have taught me a thing or two about the impermanence or at least the destructibility of flesh-in this case my flesh-but he was  also shocked.	Thumper came to my rescue, quickly escorting me outside and ordering me to take the day off:  "I  don't know what you're getting messed up in Johnny but it's  fucking you up bad."	Then she touched my arm and I immediately wanted to tell her everything.	Right then and there.	I needed to tell her everything.Unfortunately, there was no question in my mind that she would think Iwas certifiable if I started rattling on about animals and Hand shadows, mutable as letters, as permanent as fame,  a strange be- aww fuck,  the hell with the rest.	I choked down the words.	Maybe I am certifiable.I came here instead.	Which in an odd and round about way brings me to the Pekinese,  the dog  story I mentioned a ways back but didn't want todiscuss.	Well,  I've changed my mind.	The Pekinese belongs here.	With Tom's Hand shadows.It happened last December, a month before I'd ever heard of Zampano, on the tail end of what had proved to be a rather dramatic Nove.rnber, All Souls Day commencing with Lude' s acquisition of a great deal of Ecstasy, a portion of which he sold to me at bulk rate."Hoss, this is our pass to paradise," Lude had told me, and of course he was right.Who cared if  it was  fall,  it felt like spring.	Lude led the way, zipping from club to bar, crashing Bel Air fetes, desert raves and any after hours open house Malibu mansion madness we could find out about. Remarkably, no matter how zealously guarded these events were-velvet ropes as impossible to transcend as concertina wire without a hand grenade-the pills were our hand grenades.	Velvet blown aside with the release of  just one tab.	They got us in everywhere.	Even if noses were already bloody with coke, lungs black with Cannabis or throats dry with bourbon.	X was still something else entirely,  a spine shivering departure from the regular banquet, offering plenty of love-simulated bliss-bloated diversions.		And so it happened that  that month-Novem nine and all mine Novernber-Lude disappeared into his own bower of  bentdom, while I wandered off and promptly found my own.Not too long afterwards, Lude made a great show of sharing with me his official and most prodigious tally for that month. Something which,  for some reason, I felt compelled to write down.LUDE'S	LIST11/1 -  Monique.  36.  On her washing machine.   She came during the rinse cycle. He came during the spin cycle. Drier broken.11/3	Morning:	Tonya.	23.	Hispanic.	Twice.Evening: Nina.	34.	Leather choker.	Thigh high boots.11/4	Sparkle.		32.		In a gazebo above the party. 11/5	Kelly.	29.	Dancer.	In some host's sauna.11/6	Gina.	22.	Said "please" before making the weirdest requests.11/8	Jennifer.	20.	Naked at midnight on the diving platform at use. 11/911/1011/1111/12 -11/1311/14 Caroline.	21.	Swedish.	On her Nordic track.Later, some guy dating Monique (11/1) caught up with Lude.	Turned out he only wanted some E.Susan.	19.	Surprised him with a golden shower.	He surprised her with a raincoat.Evening: Brooke.	25.Midnight: Marin.	22.	Poured champagne all over the bed and told him to sleep in the wet spot.Noon: Alison 24-28????Evening: ????? 23.	Did it  in wet suits.	Neoprene smeared with Astroglide.	She kept calling him O'Neil. Holly.	24-34???? Vietnamese.Dawn.	19.	Leslie.	19.	Melissa.	19.	From San Diego. They went to The Pleasure Chest together and bought a vibrating dildo for the first time.262 11/1911/2011/2111/2211/2511/2711/28 - Cindy.	20.	Waitress.	"I get bored when I can't use my mouth."Erin.	21.	Jewish.	In a changing stall at The Gap. Betsy.		36.		After sex,  wanted a pearl necklace.	Lude told her he was broke.Michelle.	20.	Catholic.	Informed him that all anal sex requires  is Vaseline and a pillow.	She had both.Stephanie.	18.	Black.Alicia.	23.	On top of her stereo speakers.	Big speakers.		Big woofers.	Apparently very intense.	Plenty of woofing.Thanksgiving.	Dana.	28.	Navel pierced.	Nipples pierced.	Clitoral hood pierced.	Danced for Lude on her bed,  then masturbated until she came.	An hour later,sex.	He couldn't come  for  the second time.	She called a girlfriend.	They 69'd and then played Russian BlowJob-a variation on Russian Roulette.	Lude was the gun, they took turns, thirty seconds at a time (he timed);Dana's girlfriend lost (or won; depending on your tastes). Y N 100 tabs of X;12 AA batteries;half a dozen tubes of KY jelly;4 boxes of condoms (ribbed and ultra thin; all w/ Nonoxynol-9);3 loads of laundry; 2 wet suits;and 1 bottle of champagne.Quite a month. Though clearly not as epic as Lude's, I too had my encounters that November.Three.Gabriella was the first.		Her body was covered by a terrible birthmark which ran from her collar bone across one breast, over her  belly and down both her legs.	You could see traces of it on her wrists and ankles.	But you couldn't feel it.	It was textureless.	Purely a visual shift.		At first she turned out the lights but after a while it didn't matter.		She was gorgeous and gentle and I was sad to see her go. She left for Milan the following morning.Barbara came next.	She'd been spending alot of time  at  the Playboy Mansion.	Said she didn't want to be a centerfold but liked the atmosphere there.		When we  got on her bed,  she tore my shirt open.	I could hear the buttons skitter across  her floor.	By midnight she was saying she loved me.	She said it so many times,  I stopped counting.		By morning, despite numerous hints, she couldn't remember my name.And then I hooked up with Clara English.		For just one  night but at least it had started  off well.	Plenty of drinks, the buzz  happy thrum of our newly ingested X-ray vision, lap dances for both of us at Crazy Girls, and then back to her place for a whole lot of fucking, only there wasn't that much fucking before there were a whole lot more hesitations and even tears set off by a series of  interior tics  I couldn't see.	My fault  for asking to see.	I shouldn't have been curious.	Should have  left the blinders on.		Probably could have made it through the tears.	But I didn't.	I pulled out the old Question Mark (QM)  and Clara English didn't even think to answer with  a joke.	She didn't even conjure up some  ridiculous story.		She just took  one sentence to tell me about the rape.That stopped the tears.	Replaced now by well practiced meanness.I guess I can't blame her.	Who knew how I was going to respond to that kind of confession, though she didn't exactly give me the chance to respond.	Suddenly she hated me for knowing, even though she'd been the one to tell me.	Though I had asked.	I had asked.	When I called her the next day, she said she was finished fucking around with guys who belonged in a zoo.	She hung up before I could ask her if she  saw me with the cats or the birds.I guess I still think about her.	Fixed smile.	Those removed gestures.	That terrified gaze whenever it wasn't lost  to  something dull, angry and broken, an image that invariably returns me to the same question: can Clara English ever recover or is she permanently wounded, damned to stagger under years devoid of meaning & love until finally the day comes when she stumbles and is swept away?I haven't seen her since.	Maybe she's already been swept away.Now though when I look at Lude's list I don't see what I wrote down back then. I pencil in additional thoughts.  They're made up of course.   All of them born out of Clara's memory.Strange.Back then November had seemed like nothing  but fun.	The drugs robbing it of any consequence.	The  sex erasing all motives.	Now, however,  thorns have surfaced.	Sharp thorns.	My blissful bower's fallen,  overrun by weeds and deadly vines.	So is Lude's.	Spiked with hurt.	Heavy with poisonous bloom.Monique Tonya Nina Sparkle KellyGina CarolineSusanBrooke Marin Alison LeslieDawn MelissaErin BetsyMichelle Alicia DanaHusband recently left her.An ex- and a restraining order. Silence.Rage.When she was only eleven, her mother had forced her to perform oral sex on her.Hiding from a stalker.		Her fourth. Grew up in a commune.	Had her first abortion when she was twelve.Said "Who cares" two dozen telling times.	Hole in the roof of her mouth from too much cocaine.Numb.Uncle would come over and finger her. Father killed when she was eighteen. Raped by gym coach when she was fourteen.Date raped last year.Ex-boyfriend used to hit her.	She finally had to get a nose job.Walked in on her mother screwing her boyfriend.A reduction left jagged scars running around her nipples and through both breasts.	Ashamed before.	Ashamed now. Engaged.Lost her virginity to her father. Prostitute. And as for my list, my Gabriella and Barbara,  to say nothing of Amber & Christina, Lucy, Kyrie, Tatiana,  the Australian gal,  Ashley, Hailey and I suppose others-yes there have been others-who's to say. Scratch in your own guesses.	No doubt your postils will be happier than mine, though if they are, you clearly don't know what the fuck you're talking about.	Then again,  maybe I'm wrong.	Maybe you have got  it right.	I mean if you've lasted this far, maybe you do know what I'm talking about.	Maybe even better than me.People frequently comment on the emptiness in one night stands, but emptiness here has always been just another word for darkness.Blind encounters writing sonnets no one can  ever read.	Desire and pain communicated in the vague language of sex.None of which made sense to me until much later when I realized everything I thought I'd retained of my encounters added up to so very little, hardly enduring, just shadows of love outlining nothing at all.Which I guess finally brings me to the story I've been meaning to tell all along, one that still haunts me today, about the wounded and where I still fear they finally end up.The  story of my Pekinese.By the time  December came around,  I'd run out of E and energy.  For at least a week, I was hung over with no sense of what lay ahead, plenty of  untraceable guilt and a mounting sense of despair.	One thing was sure though, I needed rest. Lude didn't care.	A 10 PM call and an hour  later he was dragging me to the Opium Den, into the harangue of voices  and amplified rhythms, all of it mixing, on ice, with a combination of cheap bourbon and better bourbon, though surprisingly little talk or smiles;  feast to famine;  or was it the other way around?, until towards the end of the night, Lude, noticing my isolation but secure in his own AM plans, pointed across the room -"I think she's a porn star" he yelled at me,  though the music turned his yell  into a whisper.		I glanced over at the bar and immediately knew who he was talking about.	There were plenty of girls milling around, ordering cosmopolitans and beers, but she stood out, literally,  from all the rest.	Not height wise, mind you.	She couldn't have been more than S'S".	A petite figure, platinum hair, way too much eyeliner, nails as  long as  kitchen knives and lips  stuffed with god knows how many layers of tissue collected from the ass of some cadaver. But her tits, they were what told the whole story: enormous,  and that's an understatement.	We're talking DDDD, entire seas sacrificed to fill those saline sacks, Red Sea on the left, the Dead Sea on the right.Given the right storm, they could probably take out coastal townshipswith no guarantees for inland villages either. "Go talk to her" Lude urged me.''What  do I say?" I yelled/whispered.	Bewildered. "Ask her how big they are."I did go up and talk to her and we talked for a while though never about her tits which constantly drew my eyes into their orbit no matter how hard I tried to resist-moon and sea  tied together.	Turned out she liked to listen to country music  or  Pantera,  depending on her mood, which at that moment was completely unreadable, her bloodshot eyes  flashing out at me from beneath all that liner, sad? drunk? dry? or just permanently red?	After a good twenty minutes of talk, talk interpolated with countless conversation ends, huge uncomfortable gaps where I always expected her to cough and excuse herself which for whatever reason she never did, waiting for me to continue  our  conversation-could anyone call that a conversation? "What kind of music do you like?" "Country." (Long pause]	"Really, country?		hmmm?" (Long pause] "And Pantera." "Country and Pantera?	Really?	hmmmm?"-on and on like that until finally, after twenty minutes, the  club  started closing down and bouncers began herding people towards  the exits.	And we walked out together.	She'd come with a girlfriend who she waved  goodbye  to outside, ignoring me, though after the wave, suddenly returning to me, asking me to escort her to her truck.As we waited for the  light to change,  she told me her name wasJohnnie, though some people called her Sled, though her real name was Rachel.	This is a simple telling of a much more difficult series of questions, the answers to which,  in retrospect,  were more than likely all made up.	Then as the light changed and we crossed to the east side of Vine, we found on the corner a black bug-eyed Pekinese without tags.  It was dirty,  scared and obviously without owner,  snot pouring out of its pug nose, every part of it trembling as it cowered on that grimysidewalk, motionless, finally, after how many hours, how many days, at aloss where to go.	All directions leading to the same  place anyway.	Its own end."Oh my poor baby" Johnnie cooed, those cold and indifferent spaces  in our talk suddenly full of affection and concern, though the notes  seemed wrong, not dissonant or flat or played at an improper tempo, just wrong, the melody somehow robbed of itself, meaning not another melody266 either,  just something else.	At least that's how it  sounds now.	Back then I hardly noticed.Still, I was the one who picked up the frightened thing, cradling its  small head in the crook of my arm,  wiping some of the snot off on   the sleeve of my buttonless corduroy coat, deciding as I didthis-making a mess of myself-to take it home  with me.	To hell  with the cramped space.	I wasn't going to let this animal die.	Not after it had snotted on my coat and sighed  in my arms.	But Johnnie wanted the poor thing."What kind of  place do you have?" she asked.	"A studio," I replied.	"No way," she said, growing increasingly more emphatic and insistent, even if  all this was  spoken in that strange melody,  not exactly atonal,  I don't know, just wrong.	So despite my instincts I relented.		After all, she had a home in the valley, a yard, the kind of place dogs  are meant to have.	"A happy pet land," she called it, and really,  considering the hole I inhabited,  there was no argument.	I handed Johnnie the poor Pekinese and together we placed it in the truck."Call me the momma to all strays," she said and gave me a weirdsmile.Johnnie ended up giving me a lift back  to my place.	Oddly enough,when we pulled up in  front of my building,  I didn't ask her in.	She seemed grateful.	But I hadn't ducked the invitation on her behalf. Something seemed wrong, very wrong.	Maybe it was the vacancy I had begun to taste, brought on by November-Novem ovum nine  and  all  mine. Or maybe it was her, the salt full breasts,  the deformed mouth,  the fresco of makeup, her entire figure so perfect(ly grotesque) and all  at the age of twenty-four, or so she had told me, though she probably was closer to six thousand years old.Something about her frightened me.	The knotted fingers.	That blank stare, permanently fixed on some strange slate bare continent lost deep beneath ancient seas,  her seas,  dark, red, dead.	Maybe not.	Maybe it was that Pekinese pup,  hungry and abandoned,  suddenly rescued, suddenly with hope; a projection of myself? my own place in the way of straydom?	Maybe.	Who knows the real answer, but I'll tell you this, I sure as hell wasn't thinking then about Johnnie's  tits  or her  lips  or the positions,  the absurd positions, we could have made together.	I was thinking only about the Pekinese,  its  safety, its future.	The Pekinese and me:  a contract of concern.	I rubbed the top of its  ears,  stroked its back and then I climbed out of the truck and said goodbye.As Johnnie pulled away, she smiled again, that weird all wrongsmile.	For a moment, I watched her tail lights trail down the street, still feeling uncertain but a little relieved, until as I turned to go inside,  I heard the thump.	The one I remember even now, so clearly, an eerie and awful sound.	Not too loud.	Slightly hollow in  fact, amounting to just that-a thump.	Like that.	Thump.	I looked down the street.		Her truck was gone but behind it, in its wake, something dark rolled into the light of a street lamp.		Something Johnnie had  thrown out her window as  she passed the parked cars.		I jogged down the block, feeling more than a little uneasy, until as I approached that clump of something on the side of the road, I discovered much to my dismay all my uneasiness confirmed.To this day I don't know why she did it:  my abandoned Pekinese, found on Vine, bug eyed, with snot pouring out of its pug nose,  re-found not too far  from my front door,  that very same night,  lying next to a car with half its  head caved in,  an  eye  broken and oozing vitreous jelly,  tongue caught  (and partially severed) in its snapped jaws.	She  must have thrown it with tremendous  force too.	In truth an almost unimaginable amount of force.I tried to picture those claw like hands  grabbing this poor creature by the neck and hurling it out her window.	Had she even looked at what she held?	Had she even glanced back?Later  in the week Lude told me he'd been wrong.	She wasn't a porn star.	She was someone else.	Someone he didn't know.	Did I know?	I don't know why I didn't tell him.	Probably because his real  question was had I fucked her, and what could have been further from the truth?Me, staring down at that lifeless  dog,  not a speck of blood mind you, just a shadow looking alot like some kind of a charcoal drawing, featureless & still,  floating in a pool of yellow lamp light.	I couldn't even say anything,  not a cry,  a shout or a word.			I couldn't feel anything either, shock alone possessing me, depriving me of any emotional meaning, finally leaving me in a mad debate over what to do with the body: bury it, take  it to the pound,  throw the thing in a garbage can.	I couldn't decide anything.	So I just crouched there, my knees burning, finally filling with enough of  that distant pain that tells all of us,  especially in our  sleep,  that the time has  come to move.	But I wanted to give this dog a name first and lists skipped through my mind,  endless  lists,  which in the end ran out.			There was no name.	I was too late.	And so  I just stood up and left.		Call me an asshole  (and fuck you too)  my Pekinese friend was gone.	Ant food now. At the very least-I reasoned-the body was close enough to the curb.The street sweeper would get it in the morning.Another mother to all strays. 269 270  273 274 276 278 279 285 287 288  290 up292 295  Tirne has accelerated and I've done nothing to mark its passage. Yesterday seemed like the beginning of July but somehow today finds me mid-way through August.	When I went to work everyone got incredibly uncomfortable and drifted away.	My boss looked stunned.	He finally asked me what I was doing and I just shrugged and told him I was about to start building needles."Johnny, are you alright?" he said in a very sincere and concerned tone, without even a note of sarcasm,  which was probably the weirdest part."Sort of, I guess," I replied."I had to hire someone else,  Johnny,"  he said very quietly, pointing over to a young blonde woman already in the process of cleaning out the back storeroom.	"You've been gone for three weeks."I heard myself mutter "I have?"  even though I knew I'd been away, it just hadn't seemed that long, but of course it had been that long,  I just hadn't been able to make it in or even call.	I hadn't been able to make it anywhere for that matter and I pretty much kept the phone unplugged."I'm so sorry," I blurted, suddenly feeling very bad,  because I'd let my boss down and I could see he was a pretty decent guy after all, though at the same time feeling also a little relieved about the news of  my replacement.	It made everything seem a little lighter.My boss handed me my last check and then wrote down a number. "Get yourself  in a program man.	You look like shit."He didn't even ask if I was strung out, he just assumed it and somehow that struck me as funny, although I held off  from laughing until I got outside.	A hooker in silver slippers quickened by me.Back in my studio,  I discovered a message from Kyrie.	I'd thrown her number out weeks ago.	I'd thrown everyone's number out.		Nothing could be done.	I was gone from everyone.	I erased her message and returned to the house.In the back of my mind, I understood I would need money soon, but for  some reason that didn't bother me.	I still had my Visa card, and since selling my CD player,  I'd further improved on that resulting silence by insulating my room with egg cartons and limiting the sun's glare with strips of tinfoil stapled to pieces of cardboard placed over my windows, all of which helps me feel a little safer.Mostly the clock tells me the time, though I suspect the hands run intermittently fast  and slow,  so  I'm never sure of the exact hour.	It doesn't matter.	I'm no longer tied to anyone's schedule.As a precaution, I've also nailed a number of measuring tapes along the floor and crisscrossed a few of them up and down the walls. That way I can tell for sure if there are any shifts.	So far the dimensions of my room remain true to the mark.Sadly enough, despite all this-even six weeks without alcohol, drugs or sex-the attacks persist.	Mostly now when I'm sleeping.	I suddenly jerk awake, unable to breathe, bound in ribbons of darkness, drenched in  sweat,  my heart dying to top two hundred.	I've no recollection what vision has made me so apoplectic, but it feels  like the hinges must have finally failed, whatever was trying to get in, at last succeeding, instantly tearing into me, and though I'm still conscious, slashing my throat with those long fingers and ripping my ribs out one by one with its brutal jaws.On a few occasions, these episodes have caused me to dry heave, my system wrenching up stomach acid in response to all the fear and  confusion.	Maybe I have an ulcer.	Maybe I have a tumor.	Right now the only thing that  keeps  me going is  some misunderstood desire to finish The Nayidson Record. It's almost as if I believe questions about the house will eventually return answers about myself,  though if  this  is true, and it may very well not be, when the answers arrive the questions are already lost.For example, on my way back from the Shop, something strange surfaced.	I say "strange" because it doesn't seem connected to anything-nothing my boss said or Navidson did or anything else immediately on my mind.	I was just driving towards my place and all of a sudden I realized I was wrong.	I'd been to Texas though not the  state.	And what's more the memory came back to me with extraordinaryvividness, as clean and crisp as a rare LA day, which usually happens in winter, when the wind's high and the  haze loosens its hold on the hills  so the line between earth and sky suddenly comes alive with the shape of leaves, thousands of them on a thousand branches, flung up against an opaline sky--An eccentric gay millionaire from Norway who owned a colonial house  in a Cleveland suburb and a tea shop in Kent.	Mr. Tex Geisa.	A friend of a friend of a passing someone I knew having passed along an invitation: come to Tex's for an English tea, four sharp, on one unremarkable Saturday in April.	I was almost eighteen.The someone had flaked at the  last minute but  having nothing better to do I'd gone on alone, only to find there, seated in a wicker chair, listening to Tex, nibbling on her scone  еее Strange how clarity can come at such a time and place, so unexpectedly, so out of the blue, though who's firing the bolt?, a memory in this case, shot out of the August sun, Apollo invisible in all that light, unless you have a smoked glass which I didn't, having only those weird  sea  stories,  Tex delivering one after another in his equally strange monotone, strangely reminiscent of something else, whirlpools,  polar bears,  storms and sinking ships, one sinking ship after another, in fact that was the conclusion to every single story he told, so that we,  his  strange audience, learned not to wonder about the end but paid more attention to the tale preceding the end, those distinguishing events before the inevitable rush of icy water, whirlpools, polar bears and good ol' ignllfatuus. perilous to chase, ideal to incarnate, especially when you're the one pursued by the inevitable ending, an ending Tex had at thatmoment been relating-deckwood on fire, the ship tilting,  giving way to the pursuit of the sea, water extinguishing the  flames  in a burst of steam, an unnoticed hiss, especially in that sounding out of death, a grinding relentless roar, which like a growl in fact,  overwhelms the pumps, fills up deck after deck with the Indian Ocean, leaving those on board with no place else to go, I remember,  no  I don't remember  any of it anymore, I never heard the rest, I had gone off to piss, flushing the toilet, a roar there too,  grinding,  taking everything down  in what could, yes it really could be described as a growl, but leaving Tex's sinking ship and that sound for the garden where who should I find butе.е my memory, except I realize now my ship, isn't Tex's ship, the one I'm seeing now,  not remembering but something else,	resembling icy meadows and scrambles for a raft and loss е.е though not the same, a completely different story after all, built upon story after story, so many, how many?, stories high, but building what? and why?-like for instance, why-the approaching "it" proving momentarily vague-did it have to leave Longyearbyen, Norway and head North in the dead of summer? Up there summer means day, a constant ebb of days flowing into more days, nothing but constant light washing over all that ice and water, creating strange ice blinks on the horizon, flashing out a code, a distress signal?-maybe; or some other prehistoric meaning?-maybe; or nothing at all?-also maybe; nothing's all; where monoliths of ice cloaked in the haar, suddenly rise up from the water, threatening to smash through the reinforced steel hull, until an instant before impact the monstrous ice vanishes and those who feared it become yet another victim to a looming mirage, caused by temperature changes frequent in summer, not to mention the chiding of the more experienced hands drunk on cold air and Bokk0l beer ..е	Welcome to The Atrocity. a 412ft, 13,692 ton vessel carrying two cargoes within its holds, one secret, the other extremely flammable, like TNT, and though the sailors are pleasant enough and some married and with children and though the captain turns out to be a kind agent of art history, especially where the works of Turner, de Vos and Goya are concerned, that strange cargo could have cared less when towards the bow, in the first engine room, sparks from a blown fuse suddenly found a puddle of oil, an unhappy mistake any old mop could have corrected, should have, but it's too late, the sparks from the fuse having spun wildly out into space, tiny embers, falling, cooling, gone, except for one which has with just one flickering kiss transformed the greasy shadow into a living Hand of angry yellow, suddenly washing over and through that room, across the threshold, past the open door, who left it open? and out into the corridors, heat building, sucking in the air, eating it, until the air comes in a wind, whistling through the corridors like the voice of god-not my description but the captain's-and they all heard it even before the ugly black smoke confirmed the panic curdling in all of their guts: a fire loose and spreading with terrifying speed to other decks leaving the captain only one choice: order water on board, which he does, except he has misjudged the fire, no one could have imagined it would move that fast, so much fire and therefore more water needed, too much water, let loose now across the decks, an even mightier presence drowning out the flames and the hiss in its own terrifying roar, not the voice of god, but whose?, and when the captain hears that sound, he knows what willhappen next, they all know what will happen next even before thethought, their thoughts, describe what their bodies have already begun to prepare for, the chthonic expectation which commanded the thought in the first place- е . . sos. sos. sos е е . SOS . . е SOS е е . SOS . е е sos.sos.sos е .	-way way too late, though who knew they'd all be so long, long gone by the time the spotter planes arrived, though they all fear it, a fear growing from that growl loose inside! their ship, tearing, slashing, hurling anyone aside who dares hesitate before it, bow before it, pray before it ...	breaking some, ripping apart others, burying all of them, and it's still only water, gutting the inside, destroying the pumps, impotent things impossibly set against transporting outside that which has always waited outside but now on gaining entrance, on finding itself inside, has started to make an outside of the whole-there is no more inside-and the decks tilt to the starboard side, all that awesome weight rocking the ship, driving the hull down towards deeper water, closing the gap between the deck rail and the surface of the sea, until the physics of tugawar intercede, keel and ballast fighting back against the violent heave, driving The Atrocity away from this final starboard plunge, heading back up, that's right, righting itself, a recorrection promising balance, outside and inside again, except the rock and roll away from the sea proves a useless challenge е.е	the monstrous war of ice water below also heads away from the starboard side of the ship and as the captain's deck for a brief instant levels out, the water within also levels out, everyone hopes for a pause, though really the water never stops, following through on the powerful surge away from the starboard side, heading now towards the port side-Sososososos-past the center-Sososososos- coalescing into a wave-Sososososos .е.	useless, obviously-and the captain knows it, hearing their death before the actual impact reverberates through the hull-and there never really had been time for lifeboats .е.	-the wave beneath them pounding into the port side,this time powerful enough to drive the ship all the way over, buryingthe rail of the top deck beneath water, then the stack, letting all of the sea within, banishing the inside once and for all, and though some fathers still make for the lifeboats, it's all useless, a theatrical gesture born out of habit and habit is never hope, though some actually might have survived-habit does have its place-had there been a little more time, sinking time, except what was flammable below, now explodes, an angry Hand punching through bulkhead and hull, where a reciprocal nearly maternal Hand reaches up from the darkness below and drags all of them down, captain, deck hands, fathers, loners and of coursesons-though no daughters-so many of them trapped inside it now, tons of dark steel, slicing down into the blackness, vanishing in under twelve minutes from the midnight sun, so much sun and glistening light, sparking signals to the horizon, reminiscent of a message written once upon a time, a long, long time ago, though now no more, lost, or am I wrong again?		never written at all, let alone before еее	unlawful hopes? ...	retroactive crimes? .е.	unknowable rapes? an attempt to conceal the Hand that never set a word upon this page, or any page, nor ever was for that matter, no Hand at all, though I still know the message, I think, in all those blinks of light upon the ice, inferring something from what is not there or ever was to begin with, otherwise who's left to catch the signs? crack the codes? even if the message is ultimately preternatural and unsympathetic ...	especially since rightnow in that place where The Atrocity sunk without a trace there is nosympathy, just blind blinks of light upon the ice, a mockery of meaning where meaning had never been needed before, there away from the towering glacial peaks near Nordaustlandet, a flat plate of water with only a few solitary bubbles and even those gone soon enough, long gone by the time the spotter plane flies over this mirror of sky, the only distinguishing mark, a hole of blinding light, rising and descending with the hours, though never disappearing, so that even as the plane's tiny shadow races across the whisper of old storms, or is it the approach of a new storm?, something foretold in those thousands and thousands of cat paws, reflection draws a second shadow on the vault of heaven ... Atrocity is lost along with its secret cargo and all aboard ее. shhhhhhhhhhhh ..е	and who would ever know of the pocket of air in that second hold where one man hid, having sealed the doors, creating a momentary bit of inside, a place to live in, to breathe in, a man who survived the blast and the water and instead lived to feel another kind of death, a closing in of such impenetrable darkness, far blacker thanany Haitian night or recounted murder, though he did find a flashlight, not much against the darkness he could hear outside and nothing against the cold rushing in as this great coffin plummeted downwards, pressure сbuilding though not enough to kill him before the ship hit a shelf of rock and rested, knocks in the hull like divers knocking with hammers-though, he knows, there are no divers only air bubbles and creaks  lying about the future.	He drops the flashlight, the bulbbreaks, nothing to see anyway, losing air, losing his  sense of his home, his daughters, his five blonde daughters and  ..е  and  еее  he feels the shelf of rock give way and suddenly the ship rushes down again,  no rock now, no earth, so black, and nothing to stop this final descent...  except maybe the shelf of rock didn't give way,  maybe the shiphasn't moved at all, maybe what he feels now is only his own fall as  the air runs out and the cold closes in for good and  I've  lost sight of him, I'm not even sure if he really had five blonde daughters, I'm losing any sense of who he was, no name, no history, only the awful panic he felt, universal to us all,  as he sunk inside that thing,  down into the unyielding waters, until peace finally did follow panic, a sad and mournful peace but somewhat pleasant after all, even though he lay there alone, chest heaving, yes, understanding home, understanding hope, and losing all of it, all  long  long gone a long long time ago  е shhhhhhhhhhhhh .ее when next to him, not a foot away, lay Something he never saw, no one saw,  for he had come upon the  secret when he escaped into this cargo hold but never knew it, though it might have saved him,saved us all for that matter, but it's gone, letters of salt read by the  sea е.е and I too have lost The Atrocity е.. and the sun pours in on me, surfaces once transparent now reflect, like a sea of a differentsort, and I forget my ship, or I lose sight of it, or is that the same thing? to a time long before I saw in my own holds two cargoes, one a secret, the other extremely flammable, the  flammable put there by invisible hands for invisible reasons ... when I remembered her in the garden where she wandered away from all those ugly ends in the Indian Ocean, far from my arctic one, and found flowers and a fountain, perfume and a breeze, a warm breeze  .ее Not Texas but Tex's,  Tex's tea,  where I met Ashley-Ashley, Ashley, Ashley е.. the sun could make yousneeze-only back then her hair was dyed neon green, matching her Doc boots, a match made in heaven, both of us together,  talking and talking, at first timidly and then responding more avidly to the obvious  attraction both of us could feel until  she  gave me her number and I  wrote down my number, my first name and my last name,  which was  how, years later, she  finally found the right number to call  and she  kissed me and I kissed her and we kissed for a while more until she invited me home and  I said no.			I had fallen in love with her, flash of gold and sunlight and Rome, and I wanted to wait, in three days call her,  court her, marry her, impregnate her and fill our house with five blonde daughters, until е.е  oh no,  where have I gone now? horror but not horror but another kind of -orro-? or both, or I'm not sure, suddenly flooding through me, what back then had only been weeks away, in fact  right around the corner from there, a legacy of  leaving,  fast approaching: excrement-let go еее -urine-let go еее -and burst conjunctiva-letting go streaks of red tears.	All I could hold but in the end not save.	Of course I lost everything.	I lost her  number,  I lost her, and then in a fugue of erasure, I lost the memory of her,  so  that by the time she called she was gone along with the kisses and the promise and all that hope.	Even after our strange reunion in  the hammock suspended over strewn & decomposing leaves from a banana tree, later followed by an even stranger goodbye, she was  still  long,  long gone.	I know I am too late.		I'm lost inside and no longer convinced there's a way out.		Bye-bye Ashley and goodbye to the  one  you knew before I found him and had to let him go. 252This formula isn't entirely accurate. A more precise calculation canbe made by [fill in laterJ253254 254"Not worth a rat"s ass." - Ed.306 307   5.  as "I8 on several occasions, Zampano also uses the word "grave. "97.  276some kind of ash landed on the following pages, in some places burning away small holes, in other places eradicating large chunks of text.	Rather than try to reconstruct what was destroyed I decided to just bracket the gaps-[].Unfortunately I have no idea what stuff did the actual charring. It's way too copious for cigarette tappings, and anyway Zampano didn't smoke.	Another small mystery to muse over, if you like, or just forget, which I recommend.	Though even I'm unable to follow my own advice, imagining instead gray ash floating down like snow everywhere, after the blast but still hours before that fabled avalanche of heat, the pyroclastic roar that will incinerate everything, even if for the time being-and there still is time .	. -it's just small flakesleisurely kissing away tiny bits of meaning, while high above, the eruption continues to black out the sun.There's only one choice and the brave make it. Fly from the path.Lude dropped by a few nights ago.	It's mid-September but I hadn't seen him since June.	News that I'd been fired from the Shop apparently pissed him off, though why he should care I've no idea.	Like my boss, he also assumed I was on smack.	More than a little freaked too when he finally saw for himself how bad off I was, real gaunt and withdrawn and not without a certain odor either.	But Lude's no idiot.		One glance at my room and he knew junk was not the problem.	All those books,sketches, collages, reams and reams of paper, measuring tapes nailedfrom corner to floor, and of course that big black trunk right there inthe center of everything, all of it just another way to finally say:  no- no, no junk at all."Throw it away, hoss" Lude said and started to cross to my desk  for a closer look.	I sprung forward, ordered by instinct, like some animal defending its pride, interposing myself between him and my work, those papers, this thing.Lude backed away-in fact that was the first time he'd ever backed away: ever-just a step,  but retreating  just the same,  calling me "weird", calling me "scary."I quickly apologized and incoherently tried to explain how I was just sorting some stuff out.	Which is true."Bullshit," Lude grunted,  perhaps a little angry that I'd frightened him.	"For godsake,  just  look at what you're drawing?"	He pointed at all the pictures tacked to my wall, sketched on napkins, the backs of envelopes,  anything handy.	"Empty rooms, hundreds of black, empty fucking rooms!"I don't remember what I mumbled next.	Lude waved a bag of grassin front of me, said there was a party up Beachwood canyon, some castle loaded with hookers on X and a basement full of mead.	It was interesting to see Lude still defending that line, but I just shook my head.He turned to leave and then  suddenly  spun back around on  his heels, producing from his pocket a flash of silver, cishlash-shhhhhhick, the wheel catching on the edge of his thumb, connecting sparks and kerosene. .	his old Zippo drawn like a .44 in some mythical western, drawn by the fella in  the white hat,  and as  it turns out Lude was  in fact dressed in white, a creamy linen jacket,  which I guess means  I would have to be wearing black, and come to think of it I was wearing black-black jeans,  black t, black socks.	This, however, was not a challenge.	It was an offering, and yet one I knew I would not/could not accept.Lude shrugged and blew out the flame, the immolating splash of brightness abruptly receding into a long gray thread climbing up to the ceiling before finally collapsing into invisible and untraceable corridors of chaos.As he stepped out into the hall, a place with dull walls where a pink corpse occasionally referred to as a carpet stretches over and down the stairs, Lude told me why he'd come by in the first place: "Kyrie's boyfriend's back in town and he's looking for us, you in particular but since I'm the one who introduced you two,  he's  also after me.	Be careful.	The guy's a nut."	Lude hesitated.	He knew Gdansk Man was the least of my worries but I guess he wanted to help."I'll see you around Lude," I mumbled."Get rid of it Hoss, it's killing you."Then he tossed me his lighter and padded away, the dim light quickly transforming him into a shadow, then a sound, and finally a silence.Maybe he was right. Fly from the path.I remember the first time I hadn't and a rusty bar had taught me the taste of teeth.	The second time I'd  been smarter.	I fled from the house, scrambled over the back brick wall  like an alley cat,  and sprinted across the overgrown lot.	It took him awhile to find me but when he did, cornering me like some beast in the stairwell of a nearby shop, a chimney sweep business actually, Gallow & Sons, something like that,  his focus was gone.	Time had interceded.	Dulled his wrath.