Raymond still hit me, an open handed slap to my left ear, pain answering the deafening quiet that followed, a distant thump then as my forehead skidded into the concrete wall.Raymond was yelling at me, going on about the  fights,  my fights, at school, about my attitude,  my wanderings  and how he would kill me if I didn't stop.He had killed before,  he explained.	He could kill again.I stopped seeing, something black and painful hissing into my head, gnawing at the bones in my cheeks, tears pouring down my face, though I wasn't crying, my nose was just bleeding, and he hadn't even broken it this time.Raymond continued the lesson, his  words  ineffectually reverberating around me.	He was trying to sound like one of his western heroes, doling out profound advice, telling me how I was only ucannon fodder" though he pronounced it like  "father"  and  in a way that seemed to imply he was  really referring to himself.	I kept nodding and agreeing,  while inside I began to uncover a different lesson.	I recognized just how much a little fear had h lped me-after all I wasn't going to the hospital this time.	All along I'd misread my contentious postures as something brave, my willingness to indulge in head-to-head confrontation as noble,  even if  I was only thirteen and this monster was a marine.	I failed to see anger as  just another way to cover fear.	The bravest thing would be to accept my fear and fear him, really fear him, then heeding that instruction make a much more courageous choice:  fly once and for all from his mad blister & rage, away from the black convolution of violence he would never untangle,  and into the arms of some unknown tomorrow.The next morning I told everyone my injuries had come from another schoolyard fight.	I started to befriend guile, doped Raymond with compliments  and self-deprecating stories.	Made-up stories.	I dodged, ducked, acquired a whole new vocabulary for bending,  for hiding,  all while beyond the gaze of  them all,  I meticulously planned my flight.	Of course, I admit now that even though I tested well, I still would never have succeeded had I not received that September, only weeks later,words to find me, my mother's words, tenderly catching my history in the gaps, encouraging and focusing my direction, a voice powerful enough to finally lift my wing and give me the strength to go.Little did I know that by the time I managed to flee to Alaska and then to a boarding school,  Raymond was already through.	Coincidence gave an improbable curse new resonance.	Cancer had settled on Raymond's bones,  riddling his  liver and pancreas with holes.	He had  nowhere to run and it  literally ate him alive.	He was dead by the time I turned sixteen.I guess one obvious option now is to just get rid of this thing, which if Lude's right, should put an end to all my recent troubles.It's  a nice idea but  it reeks of hope.	False hope.	Not all complex problems have easy solutions;  so says Science (so		Science); and so Trenton once warned me, both of us swilling beer in that idling hunk of rust and gold known simply as the Truck;  but that had been in another  time when there was still a truck and you could talk of  solutions  in peace without having any first  hand knowledge of  the problem;  and Trenton is an old friend who doesn't live  here  and who  I've not mentioned before. 277My point being, what if my attacks are entirely unrelated, attributable in fact to something entirely else, perhaps for  instance just warning shocks brought on by my own crumbling biology, tiny flakesof unknown chemical origin already burning holes through the fabric of my mind, dismantling memories, undoing even the strongest powers of imagination and reason?How then do you fly from that path?As I recheck and rebolt the door-I've installed a number of extra locks-I feel with the turn of each latch  a chill  trying to  crawl beneath the back of my skull.	Putting on the chain only intensifies the feeling, hairs bristling, trying to escape the host because the host is stupid enough to stick around, missing the most obvious fact of all that what I hoped to lock out I've only locked in here with me.And no, it hasn't gone away.The elusive it is still here with me. But there's very little I can do.I wash the sweat off my face, do my best to suppress a shiver, can't, return to the body, spread out across the table like papers-and let me tell you there's more than just The Nayidson Record lyingthere-bloodless and still but not at all dead, calling me to it,needing me now like a child,  depending on me despite  its age.	After all, I'm its source, the one who feeds it,  nurses it back to health-but not life, I fear-bones of bond paper, transfusions of ink, genetic encryption in xerox; monstrous, maybe inaccurate correlates, but nonetheless there.	And necessary to animate it all?	For is that not an ultimate, .the. ultimate goal?	Not some heaven sent blast of electricity but me, and not me unto me,  but me unto it,  if  those two things  are really at all different, which is still to say-to state theobvious-without me it would perish.Except these days nothing's obvious. There's something else.More and more often, I've been overcome by the strangest feeling that I've gotten it all turned around,  by which I mean to say-to state the not-so-obvious-without it l would perish.	A moment comes where suddenly everything seems impossibly far and confused, my sense of self derealized & depersonalized, the disorientation so severe I actually believe-and let me tell you it is an intensely strange instance of belief-that this terrible sense of relatedness  to  Zampano's  work implies something that just can't be, namely that this thing has created  me; not me unto it, but now it unto me, where I am nothing more than the matter of some other voice, intruding through the folds of what even now lies there agape,  possessing me with histories  I should never recognize as my own; inventing me, defining me, directing me until finally every association I can claim as my own-from Raymond to Thumper, Kyrie to Ashley, all the women, even the Shop and my studio and everythingelse-is relegated to nothing; forcing me to face the most terrible suspicion of all, that all of this has just been made up and what's worse, not made up by me or even for that matter Zampano.Though by whom I have no idea.Tonight's candle number twelve has just  started to die  in a pool of  its  own wax,  a few flickers away from blindness.	Last week they turned off my electricity,  leaving me to canned goods, daylight and wicks.	(God knows why my phone still works.)	Ants inhabit the corners.Spiders prepare a grave.	I use Lude's Zippo to light another candle, the flame revealing what I'd missed before, on the front,  etched in chrome, the  all red melancholy King of Hearts-did Lude have any idea what he was really suggesting I do?-imagining then not one flame but a multitude, a million orange and blue tears cremating the body,  this labor, and in that sudden burst of  heat,  more like an explosion, flinging the smoldering powder upon the room, a burning snow, falling everywhere, erasing everything, until finally it erases all evidence of itself and even me.In the distance, I hear the roar, faint at first but getting louder, as if some super-heated billowing cloud has at last begun to descend from the peak of some invisible, impossibly high mountain peak, and rushing down at incredible speeds too, instantly enclosing and carbonizing everything and anyone in the way.I consider retrieving it.	What I recently bought.	I may need it.Instead I recheck the measuring tapes.	At least there's no  change there.	But the roar keeps growing,  almost unbearable,  and there's nowhere left to turn.	Get it out of the trunk,  I tell myself.	Then the elusive "it" momentarily disappears."Get out," I scream.There's no roar.A neighbor's having a party. People are laughing.Luckily they haven't heard me or if they have they've sense enough to ignore me.I wish I could ignore me.There's only one choice now: finish what Zampano himself failed to finish.	Re-inter this thing in a binding tomb.	Make it .Qil.lya book, and if  that doesn't help ...	retrieve what I've been hiding in the trunk, something I ordered three weeks ago and finally picked up today, purchased in Culver city at Martin B. Retting (11029 WashingtonBlvd)-one Heckler & Koch USP .45 ACP, kept for that moment when I'm certain nothing's left.	The thread has snapped.	No sound even to mark the breaking let  alone the fall.		That long anticipated disintegration, when the darkest angel of  all,  the horror beyond all horrors,  sits at last upon my chest,  permanently enfolding me in its  great covering wings,  black as ink,  veined in Bees' purple.	A creature without a voice.	A voice without a name.	As  immortal as my life.	Come here at long last to summon the wind.327328 8Whether you've noticed or not-and if you have, well bully for you-Zampano has attempted to systematically eradicate the "Minotaur" theme throughout The Nayidson Record.	Big deal, except while personally preventing said eradication, I discovered a particularly disturbing coincidence.	Well, what did I expect, serves me right, right?	I mean304r¥ve no decentexplanation why Zampano calls this section "TheEscape" when in footnote 265 he refers to it as "The Evacuation."	All I can say is that this error strikes me as similar to his earlier waffling over whether to call the living room a "base camp" or "command post."310A line for Kyrie, though these days she's a little unapproachable as Gdansk Man  is  now officially on some kind of Halloween rampage.	He apparently cornered Lude at Dragonfly intending to exact some kind of serious physical retribution.	Lude smiled and kicked him hard in the balls.	The bouncers there, all friends of Lude's,  quickly threw the madman into the street.	Gdansk Man in turn, being one of this century's truly great logicians,  left  some yelling message on my machine.	A powerful bit of articulation on his part, frequently  juxtaposing murder and my name with  just the right amount of grunting incoherence.	Who cares?	Fuck him.	As if he's really going to change any of this, which also applies to that scrap of German up there, as if a translation will somehow decrease the shattering effect this whole thing has had on me.It won't.	I know that now.	There's little else I can do now but copy it all down.	And fast.No matter whether you're an electrician, scholar or dope addict,chances are that somewhere you've still got a letter, postcard or note that's meaningful to you.	Maybe only to you.It's amazing how many people save at least a few letters during their lifetime, leaves of feeling,  tucked away in a guitar case,  a safety deposit box, on a hard drive or even preserved in a pair of old boots no one will ever wear.	Some letters keep.	Some don't.	I have a few that haven't spoiled.	One in particular hides  inside a locket shaped like a deer.It's actually a pretty clunky thing, supposedly over a hundred years old, made out of polished sterling silver with platinum plated antlers, emerald eyes, small diamonds on the fringe of its mane and a silver latch disguised as  the tail.	A thread of braided gold secures it to whoever wears it,  which in this case has  never been me.	I just keep it by my bed, in the locked lower drawer of my nightstand.My mother was the  one who used to wear it.	Whenever I saw her, from the time  I was thirteen till I was almost eighteen,  she always had it around her neck.	I never knew what she kept inside.	I saw it before I left for A1aska and I guess even back then there was  something about its  shape I resented.		Most lockets I'd seen were small, round and warm. They made sense.	Hers I didn't get.	It was awkward, ornate and most of all cold, every now and then blinking out odd bits of light, a warped mirror,  attempting a reflection when she  took care of it.		For the most part only achieving a blur.I saw it  again before I left for Europe.	An essay I'd written on the painter Paulus de Vos (1596-1678)  had won me an all-paid summer abroad.	I lasted two days in  the program.	By the third day I was heading for the station, looking for something,  maybe someone, a bindle on my back, a Eurorail pass  in  hand,  not more than three hundred bucks in traveler checks in  my pocket.	I ate very little, hustled from place to place, peeking into Czechoslovakia, Poland and Sweden before looping west so I could race all the way down from Denmark to Madrid where I stalked the halls of the Prado like a pack of hounds howling for a hart. Star stung chess games in  Toledo soon  gave way to a mad trek east  for the littered  lore of Naples  and eventually a ferry ride to Greece where I made my way among Ionian islands  before heading on towards destinations even further south.	Back in Rome, I spent almost a week at a whorehouse, talking to the women about the simplest stuff while they waited for their next  turn-another story waiting on other days.	In Paris I lived at the bistros during the night, occasionally splurging on beer and escargots, while during the day I slept brokenhearted on the quays of the Seine.	I don't know why I say brokenhearted.	I guess it's the way I felt,  all  emaciated and without company.	Everything I saw in me somehow only reflecting my destitution.	I often thought about thelocket,  dangling from her neck.	Sometimes  it made me hurt.	Often it made me angry.She once told me it  was valuable.	That thought never crossed my mind.	Even today I won't consider its monetary worth.	I'm living off of tuna,  rice and water,  losing pounds faster than Lloyd's of London, but I'd sell body parts before I'd consider taking cash for this relic.When my mother died the locket was the only thing she left me.There's  an engraving on the back.	It's from my father 3 1 9 : "My heart for my love-March 5, 1966"-practically prophetic.	For a long time, I didn't flip the latch.	I'm not sure why.	Maybe I was afraid what I'd find inside.	I think I expected it to be empty.	It wasn't.	When I finally did crack the hinge, I discovered the carefully folded love  letter disguised as a thank letter, scrawled in  the  hand of  an eleven year old boy.It's a letter I wrote.The very first one my mother ever received from the son she left when he was only seven.	It's also the only one she saved.353357360way, many voices.	Not that  I'm unfamiliar with voices.	A rattle of opinion, need and compulsion but masking what?//Thumper just called (hence the interruption; the"//").  A welcome voice.Strange how that works.	I'm no longer around and suddenly out of the blue she calls, for  the  very  first time too,  returning my old pages I guess, wanting to know where I've been,  why I haven't stopped by the Shop at all,  filling my ear with all kinds  of stuff.	Apparently even my boss has been asking about me, acting all  hurt that I haven't dropped by to hang out or at least say hello."Hey Johnny,"  Thumper finally purred over the phone.	"Why don't you come over to my place.	I'll even cook you dinner.	I've got some great pumpkin pie left over from Thanksgiving."But I heard myself say "No,  uh that's okay.	No thanks but thank you anyway," thinking at the same time that this might very well be the closest I'll ever come to an E ticket invite to The Happiest Place On Earth.It's too late.	Or maybe that's wrong.	Maybe not too late, maybe it's  just not right.		Beautiful as her voice is, it's just not strong enough to draw me from this course.	Where eight months ago I'd have already been out the door.	Today, for whatever sad reason, Thumper no longer has any influence over me.For a moment, I flashed on her body,  imagining those beautiful round breasts with creamy brown aureolas, making saints out of nipples,  her soft,  full  lips barely hiding her teeth,  while in the deep of her eyes her  Irish and Spanish heritage keep closing like oxygen and  hydrogen, and will probably keep on closing until the very day she dies. And yet in spite of her shocking appeal, any longing I should have felt vanished when I saw,  and accepted,  how little I knew about her.	The picture in my head,  no matter how erotic, hardly sufficing.	An unfinished portrait.	A portrait never really begun.	Even taking intoaccount her daisy sunglasses, her tattoos,  the dollars and  fives  she culls while draped around some  silver pole hidden in  some dark room in the  shadow of the airport.	A place I had still not dared to visit.	I had never even asked her the name of her three year old.	I had never even asked her for her real name-not Thumper, not Thumper at all, but something entirely else-which I suddenly resolved to find out, to ask  both questions right then and there, to start finding out who she really was, see if it was possible to mean something to her, see if  it was possible she could mean something to me,  a whole slew of question marks  I was prepared to follow through on, which was  exactly when the phone went dead.She hadn't hung up nor  had I.	The phone company had just caughtup with their oversight and finally disconnected my line.No more Thumper.	No more dial tone.	Not even a domed ceiling to carry a word.Just silence and all its consequences.3501 wish I could say this mass of black X's was due to some mysteriousash or frantic act of deletion on  Zampano's part.	Unfortunately this time I'm to blame.	When I first started assembling The Nayidson Record, I arranged the various pages and scraps by chapter or subject.Eventually I had numerous piles  spread out  across my room.	I usually placed a book or some heavy object on them to keep the isolated mounds from flying apart if there were a draft or I happened to bump one with my foot.	On top of this particular chapter I stupidly placed a bottle of German ink,  4001  brillant-schwarz or something.	Who knows how long ago either, probably when I was still sketching pictures and tinkering with collages, maybe in August, maybe as far back as February. Anyway, there must have been a hairline crack in the glass because all of the ink eventually tunneled down through the paper,  wiping out almost forty pages, not to mention seeping into the  carpet  below where  it spread into a massive black bloom.	The footnotes  survived only because I hadn't incorporated them yet.	They'd all been written out separately on a series of green index cards held together by a yellow rubber band.377 objectivity can never adequately address the reality of that place on Ash Tree Lane.Perhaps for us the most significant thing gleaned from this segment is Navidson 's persistent use of all the data3 5 3 to deny the internal shatteringDon't worry that thought crossed my mind too.	Unfortunately ExhibitThree doesn't make up for the spillage back there because there is no Exhibit Three.	Aside from a few notes, it's missing.	I've looked everywhere, especially for the Zero folder.	Nothing.	Who knows, maybe it's for the best.Today, for no reason in particular, I started thinking about Dr.Ogelmeyer, wondering what I might have found out if I'd had the money, if I'd taken the time to see his specialist, if I'd opted for the tests.		Of course if if were a fifth I'd be drunk, which I'm definitely not.	Maybe that kind of confirmation is unnecessary anyway.Still I wonder.I grew up on certain words, words I've never mentioned to Lude or anyone for that matter, words orbiting around my mother mainly, sometimes whispered, more often written in letters my father would never have let me read had he lived.(Now that I think about it, I guess I've always gravitated towards written legacies (private lands surrounded by great bewildering oceans (a description I don't entirely understand even as I write it down now (though the sense of adventure about words (that little "l" making so little difference), appeals to me-ah but to hell with the closing parent)he)see)s)(sic)Before I understood the significance of things like "auditory hallucinations," "verbigeration," "word salad," "derealization," "depersonalization" I sensed in them all kinds of adventure.	To reach their meaning would require a great journey, which I eventually found out was in fact true, though the destinations did not exactly turn out to be Edenic places full of gold leaf, opal or intricately carved pieces of jade.Count yourself lucky if you've never wandered by the house of Kurt Schnieder or Gabriel Langfeldt, or if the criterias of St. Louis, Taylor and Abrams or Research Diagnostic leave you puzzled.	The New Haven Schizophrenia Index should give more than enough away.In my case, would Ogelmeyer have turned to those tools or would he have begun first with a biological examination?	Look for hyperactivity of dopaminergic systems?	Check for an increase in norepinephrine?	or more than likely run an MRI on my brain to see if the lateral and third ventricles were getting larger?	Maybe he'd even take a peek at my delta activity on the good old electroencephalogram	(EEG)?What sort of data streams would be generated and how conclusively could he or his specialists read them?I'll never know.	Which is not to imply it's the wrong road.Quite the contrary.	It's just not mine.	All I hope for is a moment of rational thought and one shot at action before I'm lost to a great saddening madness, pithed at the hands of my own stumbling biology.As it stands, I've dropped eighteen pounds.	A couple of eviction notices lie near my door.	I feel like I haven't slept in months.	My neighbors are scared of me.		Whenever I pass them in that dim brown- walled hall, which happens rarely, only when I have to go out for more tuna, books from the library or to sell blood to buy candles, I hear379them whisper about my night screams-"He's the one, I'm sure of it." "Shhhh, not so loud."For some reason, I've been thinking more and more about my mother and the way her life failed her, humiliated her with impulses beyond her command,  broke her with year after year of the same.	I never knew her that well.	I remember she had amazing hair, like sunlight,  extremely fine and whisked with silver,  beautiful even when it was uncombed,  and her eyes always seemed to brim with a certain tenderness when I visited. And though most of the time she whispered, sometimes  she  spoke up and then her voice would sound sweet and full  like chapel bells caroling in  the foreign towns I'd eventually wander at dawn,  echoing down those streets where I'd find myself in the spare light, rubbing my cold hands together, hopping around like a lunatic, waiting for the pastry shops to open so I could buy a piece of bread and a cup of hot chocolate.She also used to write me these letters, always handwritten andfull of strange colored words.	They started after my father was killed, loaded with advice and encouragement and most of  all faith.	I don't know if  I would have survived Raymond without them.	But she was never that well, and eventually her words soured, until- Well, I wish I could just stick to thoughts of her hair and her brimming eyes  and caroling bells in foreign towns at dawn.It's never that simple though, is it?One day I received a letter in which she apologized for what she'd done.	At first  I thought she was talking again about the pan of oil  she'd accidentally knocked to the floor when I was  four but that wasn't it at all, though in an awful way her confession did change the way I  began to view my scars, their oceanic swirls now spelling out  suspicion and much too much doubt for me to really address properly.	Anyhow, she was referring to a completely different event when my father was finally forced to take her away to The Whale, when I was only seven,  a day I cannot for the life of me remember.As she explained it, her thoughts at that time had entirelydeteriorated.	The burden of life seemed too much for her to bear and therefore, in her mind, an impossible and even horrible burden to impose upon a child,  especially her own.	Based on these wild ratiocinations, she gathered me up in her arms  and tried to choke me.	It was probably a very brief attempt.		Maybe even comic.	My father intervened almost immediately,  and my mother was then taken away for my own safety.		I guess  I do remember that part.	Someone saying  "my own safety."	My father I imagine.	I suppose I also remember him leading her away.		At least the  shape of him in the doorway.	With her.	All blurred and in silhouette.Raymond knew a little about my mother's history and he used to say it was a bad dream that got her."Nightmares you know,"  he once told me with a grin.		"Can mess you up permanently.	I've  seen it  happen to buddies of mine.	That's why you'll never catch me without a gun under  my pillow.	That'll get any man through the night."A week ago  I gave myself a Christmas present.	I dug up my Visa, which I still try my best to avoid using, and not only picked up a  second gun, this time a stainless steel Taurus 605 .357, but also went ahead and ordered a rifle.	More specifically I ordered a Weatherby 300 magnum, along with twenty boxes of 180 grain core-locked rounds.I guess I'm hoping the weapons will make me feel better, grant me some kind of fucking control, especially if  I sense the dullness  inside me get too heavy and thick, warning me that something is  again approaching,  creeping slowly towards my room,  no figment of my imagination either but as tangible as you & I, never ceasing to scratch, fume and snort in awful rage, though still pausing outside my door,  waiting, perhaps for a word or an order or some other kind of sign to at last initiate this violent and by now inevitable confrontation-always as full of wrath as  I am full of fear.	So far nothing, though I still take the Taurus and the Heckler & Koch out of the trunk, load them, and  just hang on the trigger.	Sometimes for a few minutes.	Sometimes for hours.	Aiming at the door or the window or a ceiling corner cast in shadow.		I even lie with them in bed, hiding under my sky blue sheets.Trying to sleep.	Trying to dream if only so I can remember my dreams.  At least  I'm not defenseless now.	At  least I have that.	A gun in each hand.	Not afraid to shoot.	Safety off.386]302302can't help thinking of old man z here and those pipes in his head working overtime; alchemist to his own secret anguish; lost in an art of suffering.	Though what exactly was the fire that burned him?As I strain now to see past The Navidson Record. beyond this strange filigree of imperfection, the murmur of Zampano's thoughts, endlessly searching, reaching, but never quite concluding, barely even pausing, a ruin of pieces, gestures and quests, a compulsion brought on by- well that's precisely it, when I look past it all I only get an inkling of what tormented him.	Though at least if the fire's invisible, the pain's not-mortal and guttural, torn out of him, day and night, week after week, month after month, until his throat's stripped and hecan barely speak and he rarely sleeps. He tries to escape his invention but never succeeds because for whatever reason, he is compelled, day and night, week after week, month after month, to continue building the very thing responsible for his incarceration.Though is that really right?337 I'm the one whose throat  is stripped.	I'm the one who hasn't spoken in days.	And if I sleep I don't know when anymore.A few hours drift by.	I broke off to shuffle some feeling back into my knees and try to make sense of the  image now stuck  inside my head.	It's been haunting me for a good hour now and I still don't know what  to make of it.	I don't even know where it came from.Zampano  is  trapped but where may surprise you.	He's trapped inside me, and what's more he's fading, I can hear him,  just  drifting off, consumed within, digested I suppose, dying perhaps, though in a different way, which is to say-yes, "Thou  sees me not old man,  but  I know thee well"-though I don't know who just said that, all of which is unfinished business, a distant moon to sense, and not particularly important especially since his voice has gotten even fainter, still echoing in the chambers of my heart, sounding those eternal tones of  grief, though no longer playing the pipes in my head.I can see myself clearly.	I am in a black room.	My belly isbrass and I am hollow.	I am engulfed in flames and suddenly very afraid.How am I so transformed?	Where, I wonder, is the Phalaris responsible for lighting this fire now sweeping over my sides and around my shoulders?	And if Zampano's gone-and I suddenly know in my heart he is very, very gone-why does strange music continue to fill  that black room?	How is  it  possible the pipes  in my head are still playing?	And who do they play for?