------------------------------------390 3903:19  AM I woke up,  slick with sweat.	And I'm not talking wet in the pits or wet on the brow.	I'm talking scalp wet, sheet wet, and at that hour,  an hour already lost  in a new year-shivering wet.	I'm so cold my temples hurt but before I can really  focus  on the  question of temperature I realize I've remembered my first dream.Only later after I find some candles, stomp around my room, splash water on the old face, micturate,  light a sterno can and put  the kettle on, only then can  I respond to my cold head and my general physical misery, which I do,  relishing every bit of it  in fact.	Anything is better than that unexpected and awful dream,  made all  the  more unsettling because now for  some reason I can recall it.		Nor do I have an inkling why.	I cannot imagine what has changed in my life to bring this thing to the surface.The guns sure as hell were useless,  instantly confiscated at sleep's border, even if I did manage to pick up the Weatherby before my credit ran out.An hour passes.	I'm blinking in the light, boiling more water for more coffee,  ramming my head into another wool  hat,  sneezing again though all I can see is the fucking dream, torn straight out of the old raphe nuclei care of the very brainstem I thought had been soundly severed.This is how it starts:I'm deep in the hull of some enormous vessel, wandering its narrow passages of black steel  and rust.		Something tells me I've been here  a long time,  endlessly descending into dead ends, turning around to find other ways which in the end lead only to still more ends.	This, however, does not bother me.	Memories seem to suggest  I've  at one point lingered in the engine room, the container holds,  scrambled up a ladder to find myself alone in a deserted kitchen, the only place still shimmering in the mirror magic of stainless steel.	But those visits took place many years ago, and even though I could go back there at  any  time,  I choose instead to wander these cramped routes which in spite of their ability to lose me still retain in every turn an almost indiscreet sense of familiarity.It's as if I know the way perfectly but I walk them to forget.And then something changes.	Suddenly I sense for the first time ever,  the presence of another.	I quicken my pace, not quite running but close.	I am either glad, startled or terrified, but before I can figure out which I complete two quick turns and there he is,  this drunken frat boy wearing a plum-colored Topha Beta sweatshirt, carrying the lid of a garbage can in his  right hand and a large  fireman's ax in his left.	He burps, sways, and then with a lurch starts to approach me, raising his weapon.		I'm scared alright but  I'm also confused.	"Excuse me, mind explaining why you're corning  after m?" which I actually try to say except the words don't come  out right.	More like grunts and clouds, big clouds of steam.That's when I notice my hands.	They look melted, as if they were made of plastic and had been dipped in boiling oil, only they're not plastic, they're the thin effects of skin which have in  fact been dipped in boiling oil.	I know this and I even know the story.	I'm just unable403 to resurrect it there in  my dream.	Stiff hair sprouts up all over the fingers and around the  long, yellow fingernails.	Even worse, this awful scarring does not end at my wrists,  but continues down my arms,  making the scars  I know I have when I'm not dreaming seem childish in comparison.	These ones reach over my shoulders, down my back,  extend even across my chest, where I know ribs still protrude like violet bows.When I touch my face, I can instantly tell  there's  something wrong there too.	I feel plenty of hair covering strange lumps of flesh on my chin,  my nose and along the ridge of my cheeks.	On my forehead there's an enormous bulge harder than stone.	And even though I haveno idea how I got to be so deformed,  I do know.	And this knowledge comes suddenly. I'm here because I am deformed, because when I speak my words come out in cracks and groans,  and what's more I've been put here by an old man, a dead man, by one who called me son though he was not my father.Which is when this frat boy, swaying back and  forth before me like an idiot,  raises his ax even higher above  his head.	His plan I see is not too complicated: he intends to drive that heavy blade into my skull, across the bridge of my nose, cleave the  roof  of my mouth,  the  core of my brain, split apart the very vertebrae in my neck, and he won't stop there either.	He'll hack my hands from my wrists, my thighs from my knees,  pry out my sternum and hammer it  into tiny fragments.	He'll do the same to my toes and my fingers and he'll even pop my eyes with the  butt of the handle and then with the heal of the blade attempt to crush   my teeth, despite the fact that they're long, serrated and unusually strong.		At least in this effort, he will fail;  give up finally; collect a few.	Where my internal organs are concerned, these too he'll treat  with the same respect, hewing, smashing and slicing until he's too tired and too covered with blood to finish, even though of course he really finished awhile ago, and then he'll slouch exhausted, panting like somestupid dog, drunk on his beer, this killing, this victory, while I lie strewn about that bleak place, der absoluten Zerrissenheit (as it turned out I ran into Kyrie at the supermarket this last November.	She was buying a 14.75  ounce can of Alaskan salmon.	I tried to slip away butshe spotted me and said hello, collecting me then in the gentle coils of  her voice.		We talked for a while.	She knew I was no longer working at the Shop.	She'd been by to get  a tattoo.	Apparently a stripper had gotten a little catty with her.	Probably Thumper.		In fact maybe that's why Thumper had called me, because this  exquisite  looking woman had out of the blue spoken my name.		Anyway Kyrie had gotten the BMW logo tattooed between her shoulder blades, encircled by the phrase "The Ultimate Driving Machine,"	This apparently had been Gdansk Man's idea. The $85,000 car it turns out is his.		Kyrie didn't mention any ire  on his part or history on our part, so I just nodded my approval and then right there in the canned food aisle,  asked her  for the translation of that German phrase which I should have amended,  could even do  it  now, but,  well,  Fuck  'em Hoss. 39 1 And so voila it  appears here instead: "utter dismemberment" the same as "dejected member" which I thought she said though she wrote it down a little differently, explaining while she did that she had decided to marry Gdansk Man and would soon actually be living, instead of just driving, up on that windy edge known to some as Mullholland.		As I conjure this particular memory I can see more clearly her expression, how appalled she was by the way  I looked:  so pale and weak, clothes hanging on me like curtains on a curtain rod, sunglasses teetering on bone, my slender hands frequently shaking beyond my control and of course the stench I continued  to emanate.	What was happening to me,  she  probably wanted to know, but didn't ask.	Then again maybe I'm404 wrong,  maybe she didn't notice.	Or if she did, maybe she didn't care. When I started to say goodbye, things took an abrupt turn for the weird. She  asked me if I wanted to go for another drive.	"Aren't you getting married?" I asked her, trying, but probably failing, to conceal my exasperation.	She  just waited for my answer.	I declined, attempting to be as polite as possible, though something hard still closed over her.She crossed her arms, a surge of anger suddenly igniting the tissue  beneath her lips  and finger tips.		Then as I walked back down the aisle, I heard a crash off to my left.	Bottles of ketchup toppled from the shelf,  a few even shattered as  they hit the floor.	The thrown can of salmon rolled near my feet.	I twisted around but Kyrie was already gone.)	Anyway back to the dream, me chopped up into tiny pieces, spread and splattered in the bowels of that ship, and all at the hands  of a drunken frat boy who upon beholding his  heroic deed pukes all  over what's  left of me.		Except before he achieves any of  this,  I realize that now, for some reason, for the first time, I have a choice:  I don't have to die,  I can kill him instead.	Not only are my teeth and nails long, sharp and strong, I too  am strong,  remarkably  strong  and remarkably fast.	I can rip that fucking ax out of his hands before he even swings it once,  shatter it with one jerk of my wrist,  and then  I can watch the terror seep into his  eyes  as  I grab him by the throat, carve out his insides and tear him to pieces.But  as  I take a step forward, everything changes.		The frat boy I realize is  not the frat boy anymore but  someone else.	At first I think it's Kyrie, until I realize it's not Kyrie but Ashley, which is when I realize it's neither Kyrie nor Ashley but  Thumper,  though  something tells me that even that's not  exactly right.	Either way, her face glows with adoration and warmth and her eyes communicate in a blink an understanding of all the gestures I've ever made, all the thoughts I've  ever had.	So extraordinary is this gaze, in fact,  that  I suddenly realize I'm unable to move.	I just stand there, every sinew and nerve easing me into a world of relief, my breath slowing, arms dangling at my sides, my jaw slack, legs melting me into ancient waters,  until suddenly my eyes on their own accord,  commanded by  instincts  darker and older than empathy or anything resembling emotional need, dart from her  beautiful and strangely familiar face to the ax she still holds,  the  ax she is now lifting, the smile she is still making even as she starts to shake, suddenly swinging the ax down on me, at my head,  though she will miss my head, barely, the ax floating down instead towards my shoulder, finally cutting into the bone and lodging there,  producing shrieks of blood, so much blood, and pain, so much pain,  and instantly I understand I'm dying, though I'm not dead yet, even if  I am beyond repair,  and she has started to cry, even as she dislodges the ax and raises it again, to swing again, again at my head, though she  is  crying harder and  she  is much weaker than I thought, and she  needs more time than I thought,  to get ready,  to swing again,  while I'm bleeding and dying,  which now doesn't compare at all to the feeling inside, also so familiar, as the atriums of my heart on their own accord suddenly rupture,  like my  father's ruptured.	So this,  I suddenly muse in a peculiarly detached way, was this how he felt?I've made a terrible mistake, but it's too late and I'm now toofull of fury & hate to do anything but look up as the blade slices down with appalling force, this time the right arc, not too far left, not too  far right,  but right center,  descending forever it seems,  though it's  not forever, not even close,  and I realize with a shade of citric  joy, that at least, at last, it will put an end to the far more terrible ache405 The Haven-Slocum Theoryª -2 inside me, born decades ago, long before I finally beheld in a dream the face and meaning of my horror. C onsider the interesting mention in Rupert Everett's (London: Samson Sons Publishing Company, It was that or the guns.	Which may surprife you,  but something about that dream I remembered changed me.	Afterwards, juft looking  at the dull silver made me feel like there was this horrendous weight around my neck,  even though I wafn't even wearing it.	In fact, the  idea  of getting rid of it was no longer enough, I had to hate it  as  I got rid of it.At  leaft I didn't rush things.	I found an appraifer, approached some ftores,  never budged from my afking price.		Apparently it was defigned by someone well known.	I made $4,200.		Though I will say this, as I was handing over that ftrange fhape-letter included-I felt an extraordinary amount of rage surge  through me.	For a moment I was sure the  scars along my arms would catch  fire and melt down to the bones.	I pocketed the cafh and quickly ducked away, hurt, full of poifon and more than a little afraid I might try to inflict that hurt and poifon on  someone elfe.Maybe in some  half-hearted attempt to tie up some loofe ends,  I then dropped by the Fhop a couple of days later to say goodbye to  everyone.	Man, I muft look bad becaufe the woman who replaced me almoft screamed when she  saw me walk through the door.	Thumper wafn't around but my boff promifed to give her the envelope I handed him."If I find out you didn't give it her,"  I said with a smile full of rotting teeth.	"I'm going to burn your life down."We both laughed but I could tell he was glad to fee me go.  I had no doubt Thumper would get my gift.The worft was Lude.	He was nowhere around.	Firft I tried his apartment, which was kind of weird,  to  find myfelf after more than a year slipping acrofs that same awful courtyard where Zampano ufed to   walk, and there's still not a cat in  sight,  juft a breeze rustling through a handful of dying weeds warning away the  illufion of  time  in the same language of  a cemetery.	For some reafon juft being  there filled me with guilt, voices converging  from behind thofe  gloomy curtains of afternoon light, almoft as if drawn out of the dull earth itfelf, still bitter with winter, and gathering together there to accufe me, indict me for abandoning the book, for selling that stupid fucking locket,  for running away now like  a goddamn coward.		And though  no clouds or kites marred a sun as yellow as corn, some invifible punifhment still hung above me there like  a foul rain,  caufing even more rage to dump abruptly into my syftem, though where this reaction came from I'm at  a loff to know.		It waf almoft more than I could handle.	I forced myfelf to knock on Lude's door but when he didn't anfwer I ran   from there as faft as I could.Eventually a bouncer at one of his haunts told me he'd been taggedbad enough to land him in  the hofpital.	It took a little while to get paft the receptionift, but when I finally did Lude rewarded me with this huge smile.	It made me want to cry."Hey Hoff, you came.	Is this what it takes to get you out of your coffin?"I couldn't believe how terrible he looked.	Both his eyes were blacker than charcoal.	Even his normally large nofe was bigger than ufual,  stuffed now with pounds of gauze.	His jaw was a deep purple and all  over his  face capillaries had been ruthlessly shattered.	I tried pulling in deep breaths but the kind of anger I was feeling caufed my vifion to blur."Hey, hey, eafy there, Hoff," Lude  practically  had  to  shout. "This  is  the  beft thing that could of happened to me.	I'm on my way to becoming a very rich man."Which actually did help calm me down.	I poured him a cup of water and one  for myfelf and then I sat down by his bed.	Lude  seemed genuinely pleafed by his battered condition.		He treated his broken ribs and the tube draining his fractured tibia with newfound refpect:  "My summer bonus," he smiled, although the effort was somewhat warped.The way Lude told it,  he'd been delighting in the comforts of an  idle hour fpent on Funset Plaza quaffing his thirft with several falty margaritas when who should stroll by but  Gdansk Man.	He was still tweeked about the time Lude popped him in the nuts but he was even more fueled by something elfe.	Apparently Kyrie had told him that I had accofted her in the supermarket and for some stupid reafon she'd decided  to add that Lude had been right there with me, maybe becaufe he was the  one who introduced us  in the first place.	Anyway, bright enough not to make a public scene, that monfter known as Gdansk Man crept back to the parking lot and lay in wait  for Lude.	He had to wait for  a long time but he was  full of enough ill-conceived rage not  to mind.	Eventually Lude fucked down the  laft drop of his  drink,  paid his bill and ambled away from Funset, back there, towards his mode of tranfportation, right past Gdansk Man.Lude never had a chance, not even time for words, let alone oneword,  let alone a return ftrike.	Gdansk Man didn't hold anything back either and when it was over they had to send for an ambulance.Lude laughed as he finifhed the story and then promptly coughed up  a chunk of something brown."I owe you Hoff."I tried to act like I was following him but Lude knew me well enough to fee I wafn't getting the moft important part. One of his swollen eyes attempted a wink."As soon as I'm out of here, I'm taking him straight to court.I've already been in touch with a  few lawyers.	It looks like Gdansk Man has quite a bit of money he's going to have to be ready to part with.Then you and I are going straight to Vegas to lofe it all on red."Lude laughed again only thif time I waf relieved to fee he didn't cough. trip."Will you need me to teftify?" I afked, prepared to cancel my "Not neceffary.	Three kitchen workers saw the whole thing. Befides Hoff, you look like you juft got out of a concentration camp. You'd probably scare off the jury."The hurt and ache eventually got the beft of Lude and he signaled the nurfe for more painkillers."Another perk,"  he whifpered to me with a fading leer.	I gueff some things never change.	Lude's chemical line of defenfe still seemed to be holding.After he'd fallen afleep,  I drove back to his  apartment and slipped an envelope with $500  in  it under his door.		I figured he'd need a little something extra when he got out  of there.		Flaze paffed me in the  hall but pretended not to recognize me.	I didn't care.	On my way out,  I caught one laft glimpfe of the courtyard.	It was empty but I still couldn't fhake the feeling that something there was watching me.Juft an hour ago, I found a flyer under the wiper of my car:WANTED50 People We'll pay you to lofe weight!20	all Janiuere, 161021	Janiuere, 161022	Janiuere, 1610all I actually had a good laugh over that one.	You want to lofe weight, I thought to myfelf, well boy do I have something for you to read.I threw some old clothes in the back and slipped the rifle and the two guns under the seats.	Moft of the ammo  I hid in  socks which I tucked infide the spare tire.The laft week has been particularly funny, though not at all, I affure you, funny.	Everywhere the jacarandas are bloffoming.	People go around faying how beautiful they are.	Me, they only unsettle,  filling me with dread and now,  strangely enough,  a faint  sense of fury.		As foon as I finifh this note, I plan to load the book and everything elfe into that old black trunk and drag it down to a ftorage unit  I rented in  Culver city for a couple hundred bucks.		Then I'm gone.	I'm sorry I didn't get farther than this.	Who knows what I'll find back eaft, maybe fleep, maybe a calm, hopefully the path to quiet the fea,  this  fea,  my fea. 