at her legs.	Very tricky to do.	Next to impossible, especially with her just standing there in a black G-string, her bare feet sweating on the naked floor.I did my best to smile in a way that would conceal my awe. "Thank you," I said, thinking I should kneel."Thank you," she insisted.Those were the next two words she ever said to me, and wow, I  don't know why but her voice went off  in my  head like a symphony.	A great symphony.	A sweet symphony.	A great-fucking-sweet symphony.		I don't know what I'm saying.	I know absolutely shit about symphonies."What's your name?"	The total suddenly climbing to an impossible six words."Johnny," I mumbled, promptly earning four  more words.	And justlike that."Nice to meet you," she said in a way that almost sounded like a psalm.	And then even though she clearly enjoyed the effect she was having on me, she turned away with a wink, leaving me to ponder and perhaps pray.At least I had her ten words: "hello thank you what's your namenice to meet you."  Ten whole fucking words.  Wow.  Wow.   Wow.   And hard as this may be for you to believe, I really was reeling.  Even after she left the Shop an hour or so later, I was still giving serious thought to petitioning all major religions in order to have her deified.In fact I was so caught up in the thought of her, there was even a moment where I failed to recognize my boss.	I had absolutely no  clue who he was.	I just stared at him thinking to myself, "Who's this dumb mutant and how the hell did he get up here?" which it turns out I didn't think at all but accidentally said aloud, causing all sorts of mayhem to ensue, not worth delving into now.Quick note here: if  this crush-slash-swooning stuff is  hard for you to stomach; if you've never had  a similar  experience,  then you should come to grips with the  fact that you've got a TV dinner for a heart and might want to consider climbing inside a microwave and turning it on high for at least an hour,  which if  you do consider only goes to show what kind of  idiot you truly are because microwaves are way too small for anyone, let alone you, to climb into.Quick second note: if that last paragraph didn't apply to you, you may skip it and proceed to this next part.As  for her real name,  I still don't know it.	She's a stripper at some place near the airport.	She has  a dozen names.		The first time she came into the Shop,  she wanted one of  her tattoos retouched.	"Just an inch away from my perfectly shaved pussy," she announced very matter-a- factly, only to add somewhat coyly, slipping two fingers beneath her G- string and pulling it aside; no need to wink now: "The Happiest Place On Earth."Suffice it to say, the second I saw that rabbit the second Istarted calling her Thumper.I do admit it seems a little strange, even to me, to realize that even after four months  I'm still swept up in her.	Lude sure as hell doesn't understand it.	One- because I've fallen for a stripper: "'fuck a'  and  'fall for'  have very different meanings, Hoss.	The first one you do  as much as you can.	The  second one you never ever, ever do.";	and two- because she's older than me: "If you're  gonna reel  for  a stripper," he advises.	"You should at least reel for a young one.They're  sexier and not as bent."	Which is true, she does have a good six years on me, but what can I say? I'm taken; I love how enthralled53 she remains by this festival of living,  nothing reserved or even remotely ashamed about who she is or what she does, always talking blue streak to my boss about her three year old child, her boyfriend, her boyfriends, the hand jobs she gets extra for,  eleven years of sobriety, her words always winding up the way it feels to wake up wide awake, everything about her awakening at every moment, alive to the world and its quirky opportunities, a sudden rite of spring, Thumper's spring, though spring's already sprung, rabbit rabbit, and now April's ruling April's looming April's fooling, around, in yet another round, for this year's ruling April fool.Yeah I know, I know.	This shit's getting ridiculous.Even worse, I feel like I could continue in that vein for years, maybe even decades.And yet, listen to this, to date I've hardly said a word to her. Don't have a decent explanation for my  silence either.	Maybe it's my boss and his guard  dog glare.	Maybe it's her.	I suspect it's her.Every time she visits (though I admit there haven't been that many visits),  she overwhelms me.	It doesn't matter that  she always gives me a wink and sometimes even a full throated laugh when I call her  "Thumper", "Hi Thumper" "Bye  Thumper"  the only words  I can really muster, she still really only exists for me as a strange mixture of daydream and present day edge, by which I mean something without a past or a future, an icon or idyll of sorts, for some reason forbidden to me, but seductive beyond belief and probably relief, her image feeling permanently fixed within me, but not new, more like it's been there all along, even if  I know that's not true,  and come last night going so  far as to entwine, entangle and finally completely replace her with the(-can't write the word-) of- -Thumper's flashing eyes, her aching lips, her heart-ending moans, those I had imagined,  an ongoing list,  so minute and distracting that long after, when the sheets were gathered,  wet with sex,  cold with rest, I did not know who lay beside me(--) and seeing this stranger, the vessel of my dreams, I withdrew to the toilet,  to the shower, to my table,  enough racket and detachment to communicate an unfair  request, but poor her she heard it  and without a word dressed,  and without a smile requested a brush, and without a kiss left, leaving me alone to return to this passage where I discovered the beginnings of a sense long since taken and strewn, leading me away on what  I guess amounts  to another hopeless digression.Perhaps when I'm finished I'll remember what I'd hoped to say inthe first place.66 67Yesterday  I managed to get Maus Fife-Harris on the phone.	She's a UC Irvine PhD candidate in Comp Lit who apparently always objected to the large chunks of  narrative  Zampano kept asking her to write down.	"I told him all  those passages were inappropriate for a critical work, and if  he were in my class  I'd mark him down for it.	But he'd just chuckle and continue.		It bothered me a little but the guy wasn't my student and he was  blind and old,  so why should I care?	Still, I did care, so I'd always protest when he asked me to write down a new bit of  narrative.  'Why won't you listen to me?'  I demanded one time.		'You're writing like a freshman.'	And he replied-I remember this very distinctly: 'Wealways  look for doctors but sometimes we're lucky to find a -е	And then he chuckled again and pressed on."	Not  a bad way to respond to this whole fucking book, if you ask me.5568There's a problem here concerning the location of "The Five and a Half Minute Hallway."	Initially the doorway was supposed to be on the north wall of the living room (page 4), but now, as you can see for yourself,  that position has changed.	Maybe  it's a mistake.		Maybe there's some underlying logic to the shift.	Fuck if I know.	Your guess is as good as mine.5777 "nothing visible to the eye provides a reason"-a fitting phrase for what's happened.And to think my day actually started off pretty well.I woke up having had an almost wet-dream  about Thumper.	She was doing this crazy Margaretha Geertruida Zelle dance, veil after colored veil thrown aside, though oddly enough never  landing,  rather flying around her as if she were in the middle of some kind of gentle twister, these sheer sheets of fabric continuing to encircle her, even as she removes more and more of  them,  allowing me only momentary glimpses  of her body, her smooth skin, her mouth, her waist, her-ah yes, I get a glimpse of that too, and I'm moving towards her, moving past all that interference,  certain that with every step I take I'll soon have her, after all she's almost taken everything off, no she hM taken everything off, her knees are  spreading apart,  just  a few more veils  to get past and I'll be able to see her,  not just bits  & pieces of her, but all of her, no longer molested by all this nonsense, in fact I'm there already which means  I'm about to enter her which apparently is  enough to blow the circuit, hit the switch, prohibit that sublime and much anticipated conclusion, leaving me blind in the daylight stream pouring through my window.Fuck.I go off to cuff  in the shower.	At least the water's hot and there's enough steam to fog the mirror.		Afterwards, I pack my pipe and light up.		Wake & Bake.	More like wash & Bake.	Half a bowl of cereal and a shot of bourbon later, I'm there, my friendly haze having finally arrived.	I'm ready for work.Parking's easy to find.	On Vista.	I jog up to Sunset,  even  jog up the stairs,  practically skipping past the By Appointment Only sign.  Why skipping?	Because as I step into the Shop I know I'm not even one minute  late,  which is  not usually the case for me.	The expression on my boss's face reveals  just how astonishing an achievement this is.	I couldn't care less about him.	I want to see Thumper.	I want to find out if she's really wearing any of that diaphanous rainbow fabric I was dreaming about.Of course she's not there,  but that doesn't  get me down.	I'm still optimistic she'll arrive.	And if not today, why fuck, tomorrow's just another day away.A sentiment I could almost sing.I immediately sit down at the side counter and start working,  mainly because I don't want to deal with my boss which could mean jeopardizing my good mood.	Of course he couldn't care less  about me or my mood.	He approaches,  clearing his throat.	He will talk,  he will ruin everything, except it suddenly penetrates that chalky material he actually insists on calling his brain, that I'm building his precious points, and sure enough this  insight prohibits his trap from opening and he leaves me alone.Points are basically clusters of needles used to shade the skin. They are necessary because a single point amounts to a prick not much bigger than this period".".	Okay,  maybe a little bigger.	Anyway, five needles go into what's called a 5, seven for 7's and so on-all soldered together towards the base.I actually enjoy making them.	There's something pleasant about concentrating on the subtle details, the precision required, constantly checking and re-checking to assure yourself that yes indeed the sharps are level, in the correct arrangement, ready at last to be fixed in69 place with dots  of hot solder.	Then I re-check all my re-checking: the points must not be too close nor too far apart  nor skewed  in  any way, and only then, if I'm satisfied, which I usually am-though take heed "usually" does not always mean "always"-will I scrub the shafts and put them aside to be sterilized later in the ultrasound or Autoclave.My boss may think I can't draw worth shit but he knows I build needles better than anyone.	He calls me all  the  time on my tardiness, my tendency to drift & moither and of course the odds that I'll ever get to tattoo anything-"Johnny, nothing you do, (shaking his head) no one's ever gonna wanna make permanent, unless they're crazy,  and  let me tell you something Johnny,  crazies  never pay"-but about my needle making I've never heard him complain once.Anyway,  a couple of  hours whiz by.	I'm finishing up a batch of S's-my boss's cluster of choice-when he finally speaks, telling me to pull some bottles of  black and purple ink and fill  a few caps while I'm at it.	we keep the stuff in  a storeroom in back.	It's a sizable space, big enough to fit a small work  table in.	You have to climb eight pretty steep steps  to reach it.	That's where we stock all the extras, and we have extras  for almost everything,  except light bulbs.	For some reason my boss  hasn't picked up any extra light bulbs  in a while.	Today, of course, I flick the switch,  and FLASH!  BLAMI  POP!,  okay scratch the blam,  the storeroom bulb burns out.	I recommence flicking, as if such insistent, highly repetitive and at this point pointless action could actually resurrect the light.	It doesn't.		The switch has been rendered meaningless,  forcing me to  feel my way around in the dark.	I keep the door open so I can see okay, but it  still  takes me awhile to negotiate the shadows before I can locate the caps and ink.By now, the sweet effects of my dream, to say nothing of the softthrumming delivered care of alcohol  and Oregon  bud,  have worn off, though I still continue to think about Thumper, slowly coming to grips with the fact that she won't be  visiting today.		This causes my spirits to drop substantially, until I realize I have no way of knowing that for certain.		After all,  there's still half a day left.	No, she's not coming.	I know it.	I can feel it in my gut.	That's okay.Tomorrow's-aw, fuck that.I start  filling caps with purple,  concentrating on its texture, the strange hue, imagining I can actually observe the rapid pulse of its bandwidth.	These are stupid thoughts, and as  if to confirm that sentiment,  darkness pushes in on me.		Suddenly the slash of light on my hands  looks  sharp enough to cut me.	Real sharp.	Move and it will cut me.	I do move and guess what?  I start to bleed.	The laceration isn't deep but important stuff has been struck, leaking over the table and  floor.	Lost.I don't have long.Except I'm not bleeding though I am breathing hard.	Real hard.	I don't need to touch my face to  know there are now beads  of  sweat slipping off my forehead,  flicking off my eyelids,  streaming down the back of my neck.	Cold as hands.	Hands of the dead.	Something terrible is  going on here.		Going extremely wrong.	Get out, I think.	I want to get out.	But I can't move.Then as if this were nothing but a grim prelude, shit really starts to happen.There's that awful taste again, sharp as rust, wrapping around my tongue.Worse, I'm no longer alone. Impossible.Not impossible.70 This time it's human. Maybe not.Extremely long fingers.A sucking sound too.	Sucking on teeth, teeth already torn from the gums.I don't know how I know this.But  it's  already too late,  I've seen the eyes.	The eyes.	They have no whites.	I haven't seen this.	The way they glisten they glisten red.	Then it begins reaching for me, slowly unfolding itself out of its corner,  mad meat all of it,  but I understand.	These eyes are full of blood.Except I'm only looking at shadows and shelves. Of course, I'm alone.And then behind me, the door closes.The rest is  in pieces.	A scream,  a howl, a roar.	All's warping, or splintering.	That makes no sense.	There's a terrible banging.	The air's rank with stench.	At least that's not a mystery.	I know the source.	Boy,  do I ever.		I've shit myself.	Pissed myself too.	I can't believe it.	Urine soaking into my pants, fecal matter running down the back of my legs, I'm caught in it,  must run and hide  from it,  but  I still can't move.		In fact, the more I try to escape, the less I can breathe.		The more I try to hold on,  the less  I can focus.	Something's leaving me.	Parts of me.Everything falls apart.Stories heard but not recalled. Letters too.Words  filling my head.	Fragmenting like artillery shells. Shrapnel,  like syllables, flying everywhere.	Terrible  syllables. Sharp.	Cracked.	Traveling at murderous speed.	Tearing through it all in a very, very bad perhaps even irreparable way.Known. Some. Call. Is.Air.Am?Incoherent-yes.Without meaning-I'm afraid not.The shape of a shape of a shape of a face dis(as)sembling right before my eyes.	What wail embattled break.	Like a hawk.	Another Malden or no Malden at all,  on snowy days,  or not snowy at all,  far  beyond the edge of any  reasonable awareness.		This is what it feels like to be really afraid.	Though of course it doesn't.	None of this can truly approach the reality of that fear, there in the midst of all that bedlam,  like the sound of  a heart or some other unholy blast,  desperate & dying, slamming, no banging into the thin wall of my inner ear, paper thin in  fact,  attempting to shatter inside what had already been shattered long ago.I should be dead.Why am I still here?And as that question appears-concise, in order,  properly accented-I see I'm holding onto the tray loaded with all those caps and bottles of black and purple ink.	Not only that but I'm already walking as  fast as  I can through the doorway.	The door is open though I did not71 After putting his daughter back  to  bed,  Navidson  finds  Karen standing in the entrance to their room.open it.	I stub my toe.	I'm falling down the stairs, tripping over myself, hurling the tray in the air, the caps,  the ink,  all of  it, floating now above me, as my hands, independent of anything I might have thought to  suggest,  reach up to protect my head.	Something hisses and slashes out at the back  of my neck.	It doesn't matter.	Down I go, head first, somersaulting down those eight pretty steep steps, a wild blur, leaving me to passively note the pain spots as  they happen:  shoulders, hip, elbows, even as I also, at the same time,  remain dimly aware of  so much ink coming down like a bad rain, splattering around me, everywhere, covering me, even the tray hitting me,  though that  doesn't hurt,  the caps scattering across the floor, and of course the accompanying racket, telling my boss, telling them all,  whoever else was there- What?  not that it was over, it wasn't, not yet.The wind's knocked out of me.	It's  not coming back.	Here's where I die, I think.	And it's true, I'm possessed by the premonition of what will be,  what has to be,  my inevitable asphyxiation.	At least that's what they see, my boss and crew, as they come running to the back, called there by all that clatter  & mess.	What they can't see though is the omen seen in a fall, my fall, as I'm doused in black ink, my hands now completely covered, and see the floor is black, and-have you anticipated this or should I be more explicit?-jet on jet; for a blinding instant I have watched my hand vanish, in  fact all of me has vanished,  one hell of a disappearing act too,  the already foreseen dissolution of the self, lost without contrast, slipping into oblivion, until mid-gasp I catch sight of my reflection in the back of the tray, the ghost in the way:   seems  I'm not gone, not quite.	My face has been splattered with purple, as have my  arms,  granting contrast, and thus defining me, marking me, and at least for the moment, preserving me.Suddenly I can breathe and with each breath the terror rapidly dissipates.My boss, however, is scared shitless."Jesus Christ Johnny,"  he says.	"Are you okay?	What happened?"Can't you see I've  shit myself,  I think to shout.	But now I see that I haven't.	Except for the ink blotting my threads, my pants are bone dry.I mumble something about how much my toe hurts.He takes that to mean I'm alright and won't try to sue him from a wheelchair.Later a patron points out the long, bloody scratch on the back of  my neck.I'm unable to respond.Now though, I realize what I should of said-in the spirit of the dark; in the spirit of the staircase"Known some call is air am." Which is to say -"I am not what I used to be."7873 75 1994), p. 59.82strange how zampano also fails to comment on the inability of animals to wander those corridors.	I believe there's a great deal of significance in this discovery.	Unfortunately, Zampano never returns to the matter and while I would like to offer you my own interpretation I am a little high and alot drunk, trying to determine what set me off in the first place on this private little home-bound binge.For one thing, Thumper came into the Shop today.Ever since I fell down the stairs, things have changed there.	My boss kind of tiptoes around me, playing all low key and far off, his demeanor probably matching his old junkie days.	Even his friends keep their distance, everyone for the most part just leaving me alone to sketch and solder, though I'm sketching far less these days, I mean, with all this writing.	Anyway, Thumper's actually been by a few times but my incomprehensible shyness persists, forbidding me to ever summon up more than an occasional intelligible sentence.		Recently though I did get this crazy idea: I decided to go out on a limb and show her that sappy little bit I wrote about her-you know with all that coastal norths and August-sun scent-of-pine-trees stuff, even the Lucy part.		I just put it in an envelope and carried it around with me until she dropped by and then handed it to her without a word.I don't know what I expected, but she opened it right on the spotand read it and then laughed and then my boss grabbed it and he sort of winced-"Now look who's the dumb mutant" he shuddered-and that was that.	Thumper handed me her flip flops and Adidas sweat pants andstretched out on the chair.	I felt like such an idiot.	Lude had warned me I'd be certifiable if I showed it to her.	Maybe I am.		I actually believed it would touch her in some absurd way.	But to hear her laugh like that really fucked me up.	I should of stayed away from such flights of fancy, stuck to my regular made-up stories.I did my best to hide in the back, though I was too scared to go too far back because of the storeroom.Then right before she left, Thumper came over and handed me her card. "Call me some time," she said with a wink.	"You're cute." My life instantly changed.I thought.I told Lude.	He told me to call her at once. I waited.Then I re-considered, then I postponed.Finally, at exactly twenty-two past three in the morning, I dialed.	It was a beeper.	I punched in my number.76 She's  a stripper I reasoned.	Strippers live late.An hour passed.	I started drinking.	I'm still drinking.	She hasn't called.	She isn't going to call.I feel dead.	Hillary and Mallory,  I suddenly envy them.	I wonder if Navidson did too.		I bet Zampano envied them.	I need to get away.Zampano liked animals.		Far away.		All those cats he would talk to in  that weedy courtyard.	At dawn.	At night.	So many shades slinking out from under that dusty place like years, his years, could they be like my years too? though certainly not so many,  not  like him,  years  and years of them, always rubbing up against his legs, and I see it all so clearly now, static announcements that yes! hmmm, how shocking,  they still are there, disconnected but vital,  the way memories reveal their life by simply appearing, sprinting out from under the shadows, pawsl-patter- paws-paws!, pausing then to rub against our legs, zap!  senile sparks perhaps but ah yes still there, and I'm thinking,  has  another missing year resolved in song?- though let me not get too far from myself, they were after all only cats, quadruped mice-devouring mote-chasing shades,Felis catus. with very little to remind them of themselves or their past or even their tomorrows,  especially when the present burns  hot  with play, their pursuits and their fear,  a bright flash to pursue  (sun  a star on a nothing's back), a dark slash to escape (there are always predators ..е ), the spry interplay of hidden things and visible wings flung upon that great black sail of rods and cones, thin andfractionary, a covenant of light, ark for the instant,  echoing out the dark and the Other,  harmonizing with the crack-brack-crisp-tricks of  every broken leaf of grass  or displaced stick,  and so thrust by shadow and the vague hope of color  into  a rhapsody of  motion and meaning, albeit momentary, pupil pulling wider,  wider  still,  and darker, receiving all of it,  and even more of  it,  though still only beholding some of it, until in the frenzy of reception, this mote-clawing hawk- fearing shade loses itself in temporary madness, leaping, springing, flinging itself after it all, as if it were possessed (and it is); as if  that kind of physical response could approximate the witnessed world, which it can't, though very little matters enough to prevent thetry-all of which is to say, in the end, they are only cats but cats  to talk to just the same before in their own weaving and wending, they Kilkenny-disappear, just as they first appeared,  out of nowhere, vanishing back into the nowhere, tales  from some great story we will never see but one day just might imagine (which in the gray of  gentler eves will prove far more than any of us  could ever need;  "enough," we will shout, "enough!" our bellies full, our hearts full, our ages full; fullness and greater fullness and even more fullness; how then we will laugh and forget how the imagining has already left us)  slinking back into that place of urban barley, grass, fennel and wheat, or just plain hay, golden hay, where-Hey! Heyl Hey-hey!  Hay days  gone by,  bye-bye, gone way way away.	And what of dogs you ask?	Well, there are no dogs except for the Pekinese but that's another story, one I won't, I cannot tell.	It's too dark and difficult and without whim, and if you didn't notice I'm in a whimsical (inconsequential) frame of mind right now, talking (scribbling?) aimlessly and strangely about cats,  enjoying all the rules in this School of Whim,  the play of it,-Where Have I Moved? What Have I Muttered?	Who Have I Met?-the frolic and the drift, as  I go thinking now, tripping really, over the notion of eighty or more of Zampano's dusty cats (for no particular/relevant reason) which must implicitly mean that no, it cannot be raining cats and dogs, due to the dust, so much of it, on the ground, about the weeds, in the air, so therefore/ ergo/ thus (.с.): no dogs, no Pekinese, just the courtyard,77 Zampano's courtyard, on a mad lost-noon day,  wild with years and pounce and sun, even if another day would find Zampano elsewhere, far  from the sun, this  sun,  flung  face down on his  ill-swept floor,  without so much as a clue, "No trauma,  just old age"  the paramedics would say,  though they could never explain-no one could-what they  found  near where he lay, four of them, six or seven inches long and half an inch deep, splintering the wood, left by some terrible awe-full thing, signature in script of steel or claws, though not Santa, Zampano died after Christmas after all, but no myth either, for I saw the impossible marks near the trunk, touched them,  even caught some  splinters  in my fingertips,  some of their unexpected sadness and mourning,  which though dug out  later with a safety pin, I swear still  fester beneath my skin,  reminding me in a peculiar way of him, just like other splinters I still carry, though these much much deeper,  having never been worked out by the body but  quite the contrary worked .in.t& the body, by now long since buried, calcified and fused to my very bones, taking me further from the warm frolic of years,  reminding me of much colder days,  Where I Left Death,   or thought I had-I am tripping-overcast in tones  December gray, recalling names,-! have tripped-swept in Ohio sleet and rain,  ruled by a man with a beard rougher than horse hide and hands harder than horn,   who called me beast because I was his boy though he wasn't my father,  which is another story, another place I'm here to avoid, as I'm certain there are places you too have sought to avoid, just as one of Zampano's early readers also found a story she wanted to avoid, though she finally told me it, or at least some of it, how she'd departed from the old man's apartment at nightfall, having just endured hours of speech on comfort, death and legend,  not to speak of mothers & daughters  and birds & bees and fathers & sons and cats & dogs, all of it distressing her, saddening her, confusing her, and thus leaving her completely unprepared for the memory she was about to find, abruptly returning from herchildhood in Santa Cruz, even as she was trying to reorient herself in afamiliar setting and the comforting routine of a long walk back to her car,-it had been raining there; pouring in  fact;  though not on Franklin & Whitley-suddenly noticing the unnatural heaviness of  a shadow slipping free from the burnt dusk, though not a shadow at all, later translating this as the sight of an enormous creature trespassing on the curve of a Northern California night, like the shadow she  saw hiding in the bottom turn of Zampano's stairwell, moving too, towards her, and so causing her to panic and scramble into the comforts offered by a local bar-or that night scramble through the gate of Zampano's building-away from all that gloom, until only many hours  and many drinks later could she finally fall asleep, her hangover the following day leavingher-"gratefully," she said-with only a fleeting memory of somethingwhite with ropes of sea smoke and one terrifying flash of blue,  which was more, she told me, than she could usually share even if-which she wouldn't share-she knew it still wasn't even the half of it.And so now, in the shadow of unspoken events, I watch Zampano's courtyard darken.Everything whimsical has left.I try to study the light-going carefully.	From my room.	In the glass of my memory.	In the moonstream of my imagination.	The weeds, the windows, every bench.But the old man is not there, and the cats are all gone.Something else has  taken their place.	Something I am unable to see.	Waiting.78 I'm afraid.It is hungry.	It is immortal. Worse, it knows nothing of whim.Holloway's assertion that the camera is impotent within the house "helps establish him-at least for a little whiJe-as the tribe's head."98No idea.	Actually, Lude had a German friend named Kyrie, a tallblonde haired beauty who spoke Chinese,  Japanese and French,  drank beer by the quart, trained for triathlons when she wasn't playing competitive squash, made six figures a year as a corporate consultant and loved to fuck.	Lude took heed when I told him I needed a German translation and introduced us.As it turned out, I'd met her before, about five or so months ago.It had  actually been a little tricky.		I was leering about, pretty obliterated in the arms of drink, hours of drink actually, feeling like days of drink,  when this monstrous guy  loomed up in  front of me, grumbling insensibly about bad behavior, something concerning too much talk with too much gesture, gestures  towards her,  that much of the grumble,  the "her"  bit, I understood.		He meant Kyrie of course who even back then was a blonde haired beauty, writing my name in Japanese and assigning all sorts of portentous things to it, things  I was  hoping to lead or was it follow? elsewhere, when  this  prehistoric  shithead, reeking of money and ignorance,  interposed himself,  cursing,  spitting and threatening, in fact so loud & mean Kyrie had to interpose herself, which only made matters worse.	He reached over her and hit me in the forehead with the heel of  his hand.	Not hard, more like a shove, but a strong enough shove to push me back a few feet."Well look at that," I  remember hollering.	"He has an opposable thumb."The monster wasn't amused.		It didn't matter.	The alcohol in me had already quickened and fled.	I stood there tingling all over, a dangerous clarity returning to me, ancient bloodlines colluding under  what I imagine now must of  been the very aegis of Mars,  my fingers itching to weld into themselves, while directly beneath my sternum a hammer struck the timeless bell of war, a call to arms, though all of it still held back by what? words I guess,  or rather a voice,  though whose I have no clue.He was  twice my size,  bigger and stronger.	That should of mattered.	For some reason it didn't.	Odds were he'd rip me to pieces, probably even try to stomp me, and yet part of me still wanted to find  out for sure.	Luckily,  the alcohol returned.	I got wobbly and then I got scared.Lude was yelling at me."You got a death wish Truant?" Which was the thing that scared me. 'Cause maybe I did.87 Five months or so later, Lude arranged for me to meet Kyrie at Union.	I was  late by an hour.	I had an excuse.	Every time I tried to open my door,  my heart started racing  for a bypass.	I had to sit down and wait for the thumping to calm.	This went on for almost fifty minutes, until I finally just gave up, gritted my teeth and charged out into the night.Of course I recognized Kyrie immediately and she recognized me.She was getting ready to  leave when I arrived.	I apologized and begged her to stay,  making up some  lame excuse about police trying to save  a guy in my building who'd stuck his head in  a microwave.	She looked wonderful and her voice was soft and offered me something Thumper had taken away when she hadn't  called me back.	She even wrote down on a napkin the glyph she'd created for me half a year ago to reflect my name and nature.Before I could order a drink, a Jack and Coke, she told me herboyfriend was out of town, working on some construction site in Poland, single handedly dislodging supertankers stuck in dry dock in Gdansk or something.	It was a dirty job but someone had to do it, and what's more he wasn't going to be back for a few  more weeks.	Before I even took a sip of my drink, Kyrie was complaining about all the people filtering in around us and then as  I finished my drink  in one long gulp,  she suggested we go for a drive in her new 2 door BMW Coupe."Sure" I said, feeling vaguely uneasy about wandering too far from where I lived, which I realized,  as  I took a second to think that out, was absolutely absurd.		What the fuck was happening to me?	My apartment's a dump.	There's nothing there for me.	Not even sleep.	Cat naps are fine but for some reason deep REM is getting more and more difficult to achieve.		Definitely not a good thing.Fortunately, I was falling under the spell of Kyrie's blue eyes, like sea ice, almost inhuman, reminding me again-as she herself had already pointed out-that she was alone, Gdansk Man more than half a world spinning world away.In the parking lot, we slipped into her bucket seats and quickly swallowed two tabs of Ecstasy.Kyrie took over from there.At nearly ninety miles per hour, she  zipped us  up to that windy edge known to some  as Mullholland,  a sinuous  road running the ridge of the Santa Monica mountains, where she then proceeded to pump her vehicle in and out of turns, sometimes dropping down  to  fifty miles  per hour only to immediately gun it back up to ninety again, fast,  slow,  fast-  fast,  slow,  sometimes a wide turn, sometimes a quick one.	She preferred the tighter ones, the sharp controlled jerks, swinging left to right, before driving back to the right,  only so  she could do it  all over  again,  until  after enough speed and enough wind and more distance than I'd been prepared to expect, taking me to parts of this city I rarely  think of and never visit, she dipped down into some  slower offshoot,  a lane of lightless coves,  not stopping there either,  but pushing further on until she finally found the secluded spot she'd been heading for all along, overlooking the city, far  from anyone,  pedestrian or home,  and yet directly beneath a street lamp, which as  far as  I could tell,  was the only street lamp around for miles.Seems all that twittering light flooding down through the sunroof really turned her on.I can't remember the inane  things  I started babbling about then. I know it didn't really matter.	She wasn't listening.	She just yanked up on the emergency brake, dropped her seat back and told me to lie on  top of her, on top of those leather pants of hers, extremely expensive88 leather pants mind you,  her hands  immediately guiding mine over those soft slightly oily folds, positioning my fingers on the shiny metal tab, small and round like a tear, then murmuring a murmur so inaudible that even though I could feel her lips tremble against my ear, she seemed far, far away-"pinch it" she'd said, which I did,  lightly,  until  she also said "pull it" which I also did,  gently,  parting the teeth,  one at a time, down, under and beneath, the longest unzipping of my life,  all the way from right beneath her perfectly oval navel to the tiny tattoo, a Japanese sign, the meaning of which I never guessed, marking her lower back, and not a stitch of underwear to get in the way, the rest very guessable though don't underestimate the danger which I guess really wasn't so dangerous after all.We never even kissed or looked into each other's eyes.	Our lips just trespassed on those inner labyrinths hidden deep within our ears, filled them with the private music of wicked words, hers in many languages, mine in the off color of my only tongue, until as our tones shifted, and our consonants spun  and  squealed,  rattled faster, hesitated, raced harder, syllables soon melting with groans, or moans finding purchase in new words, or old words, or made-up words, until we gathered up our heat and refused to release it, enjoying too much thedark language we had suddenly stumbled upon, craved to, carved to, not a communication really but a channeling of our rumored desires,  hers  for all I know gone to Black Forests and wolves, mine banging back to a familiar form, that great revenant mystery I still could only hear the shape of, which in spite of our separate lusts and individual criesstill continued to drive us deeper into stranger tones, our mutual desire to keep gripping the burn fueled by sound, hers screeching, mine-I didn't hear mine-only hers, probably counter-pointing mine, ahigh-pitched cry, then a whisper dropping unexpectedly to practically a bark, a grunt, whatever, no sense any more, and suddenly no more curves either, just the straight away, some line crossed, where every fractured sound already spoken finally compacts  into one  long agonizing word, easily exceeding a hundred letters, even thunder, anticipating the inevitable letting go, when the heat is ultimately too much to bear, threatening to burn, scar, tear it all apart, yet tempting enough to hold onto for even one second more, to extend it all, if we can, as ifby getting that much closer to the heat, that much more enveloped, would prove .ее -which when we did clutch, hold, postpone, did in fact prove too much after all,  seconds too much,  and impossible to refuse,  so blowing all of everything apart, shivers  and shakes  and deep in her throat a thousand letters crashing in a long  unmodulated  fall, resonating deep within my cochlea and down the  cochlear  nerve,  a last fit of fury describing in lasting detail the  shape of  things  already come.Too bad dark languages rarely survive.As quickly as they're invented, they die, unable to penetrate much,  explore anything or even connect.	Terribly beautiful but more often than not inadequate.	So I guess it's no surprise that what I recall now with the most clarity is actually pretty odd.When Kyrie dropped me off, she burped.At the time I thought it was kind of cute but I guess "man eater" did cross my mind.	Then as I opened the door, she burst into tears.All she was in that  $85,000  car could not exclude the  little girl. She said something about Gdansk Man's disinterest in her, in fucking her, in even touching her, running away to Poland, and then she apologized, blamed the drugs still roaming around in her veins  and told me to get out.She was still crying when she drove off.In the end, the whole thing had been so  frantic and fast and  strange and even sad in some ways, I completely forgot to ask her about the German phrase.99		I suppose I could call her (Lude has her number) but for some reason these days dialing seven let alone eleven numbers feels like an  infinite stretch.	The phone's right in front of me but it's out of reach.	When it rings at  four AM I don't answer it.	All I have to do is  extend my hand but  I can't run that far.	Sleep never really arrives.	Not even rest.	There's no satisfaction anymore.Morning shrinks space but leaves no message.90 91 Navidson breaks off his conversation with Holloway to find out what happened. Chad, however, refuses to speak.104104which is not really a good response.		And you know changing the details or changing the subject can be just the same as refusing to speak.	I guess I've been guilty of those two things for a long time now, especially the first one, always shifting and re-shifting details, smoothing out the edges, removing the corners, colorizing the whole thing or if need be de-colorizing, sometimes even flying in a whole chorus of cartoon characters, complete with slapstick Biffl Blaml Pow! antics,-this time leave in the blam-which may have some appeal, can't underrate the amusement factor there, even though it's so far from the truth it might as well be a cartoon because it certainly isn't what happened, no Bugs Bunny there, no Thumper, no Biff! Blaml Pow! either, no nothing of the kind.	And fuck, now I know exactly where I'm going, a place I've already managed to avoid twice, the first time with a fictive tooth improv, the second time with that quick dart north to Santa Cruz and the troubles of a girl I barely know, though here I am again, right at this moment too, again heading straight for it, which I suppose I could still resist.	I am resisting.	Maybe not.	I mean I could always just stop, do something else, light up a joint, get swollen on booze.In fact doing virtually anything at all, aside from this, would keep mefrom relating the real story behind my broken tooth, though I don't know if I want to, not relate that story I mean, not anymore.	I actually think it would do me some good to tell it, put it down here, at least some of it, so I can see the truth of it, see the details, revisit that taste, that time, and maybe re-evaluate or re-understand or re- I don't know.Besides, I can always burn it when I'm done.After my father died I was shipped around to a number of foster homes.	I was trouble wherever I went.	No one knew what to do with me. Eventually-though it did take awhile-I ended up with Raymond and his family.		He was a former marine with, as I've already described, a beard rougher than horse hide and hands harder than horn.	He was also a total control freak.	No matter the means, no matter the cost, he was going to be in control.	And everyone knew if push came to shove he was as likely to die for it as he was to kill for it.I was twelve years old. What did I know?I pushed.I pushed all the time.Then one night, late at night, much closer to dawn than dusk, while ice still gathered outside along the window frames and tessellated walks, I woke up to find Raymond squatting on my bed, wearing his black dirt-covered boots, chewing on a big chunk of beef jerky, jabbing me in the face with his fingers, murdering all remnants of sterno or park dreams."Beast," he said when he was satisfied sleep was completely dead. "Let's get an understanding going.	You're not really in this family but you're living with this family, been living'n us for near a year, so what does that make you?"I didn't answer.	The smart move."That makes you a guest, and being a guest means you act like a guest.	Not like some kind of barnyard animal.	If that doesn't suit you, then I'll treat you like an animal which'll have to suit you.	And92 what I'm saying  'bout your behavior don't  just  go for here either.	It goes  for that school too.	I don't want no more problems.	You clear?"Again I didn't say anything.He leaned closer,  forcing on me that rank smell of meat clinging to his teeth. "If you understand that, then you and I aren't going to cross no more." Which was all he said, though he squatted there on my  bed for a while longer.The next day I fought in the schoolyard until my knuckles were bloody.	And then I fought the  following day and the day after that.	A whole week, fifteen faceless assailants  racing  after me right when school rang out,  mostly eighth graders but  a few ninth graders too, always bigger than me, telling me no seventh grade newcomer ever gets  a say back, but I always said back, I bounced all of it right back,  back- off whenever they gave me even the slightest bit of  shit,  and they finally hurt me for doing it, hurt me enough to make me give up and die, just curl up and cry, kicking the  ground,  my face all  puffy,  balls bashed and ribs battered, though something would always just pick me up from that fetal hold, maybe in the end it was all  the nothing I had to hold, and  it would throw me again after whoever was winning or just wanted to go next.After the tenth fight, something really poisonous  got  inside me and turned off  all the pain.		I didn't even register a hit or cut anymore.	I heard the blow but it never made it  far enough along my nerves  for me to even feel.	As  if  all the feel-meters had blown.	So I just kept hacking back, spending everything I was against what I still didn't know.This one kid, he must have been fourteen too, hit me twice and figured I was  down for good.	I clawed up his face pretty bad then, enough for the blood to get in his eyes,  and I don't think he expected it was ever going to get  to that.	I mean there were rivulets on his parka and on alot of the snow and he kind of froze up,  frightened I guess, I don't know, but I apparently fractured his jaw and loosened a couple of  his  teeth then, split three of my knuckles too.	Gloves were not an option in this kind of fighting.Anyway, he's the kid that got me expelled, but since the fight hadtaken place after school, it took all the  next day  for  the administrators to put the pieces together.			In the meantime, I fought three more times.	Right at noon recess.	Friends of the ninth grader came after me.	I couldn't punch too well with my broken knuckles and they kept pushing me down and  kicking me.		Some teachers finally pulled them off,  but not before I got  my thumb in one of the  kid's eyes.	I heard he had blood in it for weeks.When I got home Raymond was waiting for me.		His wife had called him at the site  and told him what had happened.	Over the last week, Raymond had seen the bruises and cuts on my hands but since the school hadn't called and I wasn't saying anything, he didn't say anything either.No one asked me what happened.	Raymond just told me to get in the truck.	I asked him where we were going.	Even a question from me made him mad.		He yelled at his daughters to go to their room."I'm taking you to the hospital," he finally whispered. But we didn't go directly to the hospital.Raymond took me somewhere else first, where I lost half my tooth, and alot more too I guess, on the outskirts, in an ice covered place, surrounded by barbed wire and willows, where monuments of rust, seldom touched, lie frozen alongside fence posts and no one ever comes near enough to hear the hawks cry.93  99 pseudo-academic hogwash lurked a very passionate man who knew how important it was to say "fuck" now and then, and say it loud too, relishits syllabic sweetness, its immigrant pride, a great American epic word really, starting at the lower lip, often the very front of the lowerlip, before racing all the way to the back of the throat, where it finishes with a great blast, the concussive force of the K catching upthen with the hush of the F already on its way, thus loading it with plenty of  offense and edge  and certainly ambiguity.	FUCK.	A great by-the-bootstrap prayer or curse if you prefer, depending on how you  look at it, or use it, suited perfectly for hurling at the skies or at the world, or sometimes, if said just right,  for uttering with enough love and fire, the woman beside you melts inside herself,  immersed in  all that word-heat.Holy fuck, what was that all about? "Love and fire"?	"word-heat"?Who the hell is thinking up this shit?Maybe Zampano just wrote "fuck" because he wasn't saying fuck before when he could fuck and now as he waited in that hole on Whitley he wished he would of  lived a little differently.	Or then again maybe he just needed a word strong enough to push back his doubts, a wordstrong enough to obliterate, at least temporarily, the certain vision of his own death, definitely necessary for those times when he was workinghis way around the courtyard,  trying to stretch his  limbs,  keep his heart pumping,  a few remaining cats  still rubbing up against his withered legs, reminding him of the years he missed, the old color,  the old light.	The perfect occasion,  if you ask me,  to say "fuck."	Though if he did say it no one there ever heard him.Of  course,  fuck you,  you may have a better idea.		I went ahead and paged Thumper again.	Again she didn't call me back.	Then this morning,I discovered a message on my machine.	It startled me.	I couldn't remember hearing the phone ring.	Turned out some girl named Ashley wanted to see me,  but  I had no idea who she was.	When I finally rolled into the Shop,  I was a good three hours late.	My boss flew off the handle.	Put me on probation.	Said I was an ass hair away from gettingfired, and no he didn't care anymore how well I made needles.Unfortunately, I'm not too hopeful about improving my punctuality.You wouldn't believe how much harder it's getting for me to just  leave my studio.	It's really sad.	In fact these days the only thing that gets me outside is  when I say: Fuck.	Fuck.	Fuck.	Fuck you.	Fuck me. Fuck this.	Fuck.	Fuck.	Fuck.100  (or)SO?II9119Pretty bitter but I've  said the  same thing myself more than a few times.	In fact that word helped me make it through those months  in Alaska.		Maybe even got me there to  begin with.	The woman at the agency had to have known I wasn't close to sixteen, more like thirteen going on thirty-three,  but she approved my application anyway.	I like to imagine she was thinking to herself uBoy does this kid look young"  and then because  she  was  tired or really didn't care or because my tooth was split and I looked mean, she answered herself with "So?"  and went ahead and secured my place at the canning factory.Those were the days,  let me tell you.	Obscene twelve hour dayscradled in the  arms  of stupefying beauty.	Tents on the beach, out there on the Homer Spit, making me, not to mention the rest of us, honoraryspit rats.103 Nothing to ever compare it to again either.	An awful juxtaposition of fish bones & can-grime and the stench of too many aching lives & ragged fingers set against an unreachable and ever present beyond, a life-taking wind, more pure than even glacier water. And just as some water is too cold to drink, that air was almost toobright to breathe, raking in over ten thousand teeth of range pine, while bald eagles soared the days away like gods, even if they scavenged the mornings  like  rats,  hopping around on gut-wet docks with the sea at their backs always calling out like  a blue-black taste  of  something more.Nothing about the job itself could have kept you there, hour upon hour upon even more hours, bent to the bench, steaming over the dead,gouging for halibut cheeks, slabs of salmon, enduring countless mosquito bites, even bee stings-my strange fortune-and always in the ruin of so many curses from the Filipinos, the White Trash,  the Blacks,  the Haitians,  a low grade-grumbling which is the business of canning.	The wage was good but it sure  as  hell wasn't enough to lock you down.	Not after one week, let alone two weeks, let alone three months of the samemind-numbing gut-heaving shit.You had to find something else.For me it was the word "So?"	And I learned it the hard way, in fact right at the very start of that summer.I'd been invited out on a fishing boat, a real wreck of a thing  but supposedly as  seaworthy as they get.	Well, we hadn't been gone formore than a few hours when a storm suddenly came up, split the seams and filled the hull with water.	The pumps worked fine but only  for about ten minutes.	Tops.			The coast guard came to the rescue but they took an hour to reach us.	At the very least.		By then the boat  had already sunk.	Fortunately we had a life raft to cower in and almost everyone survived.	Almost.		One guy didn't.	An old Haitian.	At least sixteenyears old.	He was a friend too or at least on his way to becoming a friend.	Some line had gotten tangled around his ankle and he was dragged down with the wreck.	Even when his head went under, we could all hear him scream.	Even though I know we couldn't.Back on shore everyone was pretty messed up, but the owner/captain was by far the worst off. He ended up drunk for a week, though the only thing he ever said was "So?"The boat's gone.	"So?" Your mate's dead.		"So?"Hey at  least you're alive.	еso?"An awful word but it does harden you. It hardened me.Somehow-though I don't remember exactly how-I ended up telling my boss a little about that summer.  Even Thumper tuned in.  This was the first time she'd paid any real attention to me and it felt great.In fact by the time I finished, since the day was almost over anyway and  we were locking up, she let me walk her out.104 "You're alright Johnny," she said in a way that actually made me feel alright.	At least for a little while.We kept talking and walked a little longer and then on a whim decided to get some Thai food at a small place on the north side of Sunset.	She saying "Are you hungry?"	Me using the word "starving." Her insisting we get a quick bite.Even if I hadn't been starving, I would of eaten the world just tobe with her.	Everything about her shimmered.	Just watching her drink a glass of water,  the way she'd crush an  ice cube between her teeth,  made me go a little crazy.	Even the way her hands held the glass, and she has beautiful hands, launched me into all kinds  of  imaginings,  which I really didn't have time for because the moment we sat down, she started telling me about some new guy she was seeing,  a trainer or  something for a cadre of wanna-be never-be boxers.	Apparently, he could make her come harder than she had in years.I suppose that might of made me feel bad but  it didn't.	One of the reasons I like Thumper is because she's so open and uninhabited, I mean uninhibited, about everything.	Maybe I've said that already.Doesn't matter.	Where she's concerned I'm happy to  repeat myself."It takes more than just being good,"  she told me.	"Don't get me wrong: I love oral sex, especially if the guy knows what he's doing.Though if you treat my clit like a doorbell, the door's  not  going to open."  She crushed another cube of ice.		"Recently though, it's like I need to be thinking something really different and out there to get me crazy.	For a while,  money made my wet.		I'm older now.	Anyway this guy said he was  going to  slap my ass and I said sure.	For whatever reason I hadn't done that before.	You done it?"  She  didn't wait for my answer. "So he got behind me, and he's got a nice cock, and I love the sound his thighs make when they snap up against my  ass,  but  it wasn't going to make me come,  even with me touching myself.	That's when he smacked me. I could hardly feel it the  first time.	He was being kind of timid.	SoI told him to  do it harder.	Maybe I'm nuts, I don't know, but he whacked me hard the next time  and I just started to go off.	Told him to do it again and each time I got worked.	Finally when I did come, I came really-" and she held out  the "reeeal"-"hard.	Saw in the mirror later I had a handprint right on my ass cheek.		I guess you could say these days  I like handprints.	He  said his palm stung."	She laughed over that one.When our food arrived, I began telling her about Clara English, another story altogether, Christina & Amber, Kyrie, Lucy and even the Ashley I have no  clue about,  which also made her laugh.	That's when I decided not to bring up my unreturned pages.	I didn't want to get all petty with her, even though secretly I did want to know why she never called me back.	Instead I made a plan to stick exclusively to thesubject of sex, flirt with her that way, make up some insane  stories, maybe even elaborate on the Alaska thing,  make her laugh some more,  all of which was fine and good until for some reason, out of the blue,  I changed the plan and started to tell her about Zampano and the trunk and  my crazy attacks.	She stopped laughing.	She even stopped crushing ice. She just listened to me for a half hour, an hour, I don't know how long,105 a long time.	And you know the more I talked the more I felt some of the pain and panic inside me ease up a notch.In retrospect it was pretty weird.	I mean there I was wandering into all  this personal stuff.	I wasn't even sharing most of it with her either.	I mean not as much as I've been putting down here, that's forsure.	There's just too much of it anyway,  always running parallel,  is that the right word?, to the old man and his book,  briefly appearing, maybe even intruding, then disappearing again; sometimes pale, sometimes bleeding, sometimes rough, sometimes textureless; frequently angry, frightened, sorry, fragile or  desperate,  communicated in moments of motion, smell and sound,  more often than not  in skewed grammar,  a mad rush broken up by eidetic recollections, another type of  signal  I suppose, once stitched into the simplest cries for help flung high above the rust and circling kites or radioed when the Gulf waters of Alaska finally swept over and buried the deck for good-Here Come Dots ... -or even carried to a stranger place where letters let alone visits never register, swallowed whole and echoless, in a German homonym for thewhispered Word, taken, lost, gone, until there's nothing left to examine there either, let alone explore,  all of which fractured in my head,  even if it was hardly present in the words I spoke, though at the very least these painful remnants were made more bearable in the presence of   Thumper.At one point  I managed to get past all those private images  andjust glance at her eyes.	She wasn't looking around at people or fixing on silverware or tracking some wandering noodle dangling off her plate.  She was  just  looking straight at me,  and without any malice either.	She was wide open, taking in everything I told her without judgment, just listening, listening to the way I phrased it  all,  listening to how I felt.	That's when something really painful tore through me,  like some old, powerful root, the kind you see in mountains sometimes splittingapart chunks of granite as big as small homes, only instead of granite this thing was  splitting me apart.	My chest hurt and I felt funny all over, having no idea what it was, this root or the feeling, until I suddenly realized I was going to start sobbing.	Now I haven't cried since I was twelve, so I had no intention of starting at twenty-five, especially in some fucking Thai restaurant.So I swallowed up. I killed it.I changed the subject.A little while later, when we said goodnight, Thumper gave me a big, sweet hug.	Almost as if to say she knew where I'd just been."You're alright Johnny," she said for the second time that night. "Don't worry so much.	You're still young.	You'll be fine."And then as she put her jeep into gear, she smiled:  "Come down and see me at work some time.	If you want my opinion, you just need to get out of the house."106 IXHie labor il/e domus et inextricabilis error-Virgil laboriosus exitus domus-Ascensius laboriosa ad entrandum- Nicholas Trevet x x"Here is the toil of that house, and the inextricable wandering" Aeneid 6. 27. "The house difficult of eitit" (Ascensius (Paris 1501)); "difficult to enter" (Trevet (Basel 1490)).135 See H.J. Thomson's "Fragments of Ancient Scholia on Virgil Preserved in Latin Glossaries" in W. M. Lindsay and H.J. Thomson's Ancient Lorein Medieval Latin Glossaries (London: St. Andrews University Publications, 1921). 120l201n fact all of this was quoted directly from Penelope Reed Doob's TheIdea of the Labyrinth; From Classical Antiquity through the Middle Ages (Ithaca: Cornell University Press,  1990) p.  21,  97,  145 and 227.	A perfect example of how Zampano likes to obscure the secondary sources he's using in order to appear more versed in primary documents.	Actually a woman by the name of Tatiana turned me onto that bit of info.	She'd been one of Zampano еs scribes and-е lucky for meе she told me over the phone-- still had, among other things, some of the old book lists he'd requested from the library.I do have to say though getting over to her place was no easy accomplishment.		I had trouble just walking out my door.		Things are definitely deteriorating.	Even reaching for the latch made me feel sick to my stomach.	I also experienced this awful tightening across my chest, my temples instantly registering a rise in pulse rate.	And that's notthe half of it.	Unfortunately I don't think I can do justice to how truly strange this all is, a paradox of sorts, since on one hand I'm laughing at myself, mocking the irrational nature of my anxiety, what I continue in fact  to perceive as a complete absurdity-е! mean Johnny what do you really have to be afraid of?е- while on the other hand, and at the same time mind you, finding myself absolutely terrified, if not of something in particular-there were no particulars as far as I could see--then of the reaction itself, as undeniable & unimpeachable as Zampano's black trunk.I know it makes no sense but there you have it: what should have negated the other only seemed to amplify it instead.Fortunately, or not fortunate at all, Thumper's advice continued to echo in my head.	I accepted the risk of cardiac arrest, muttered a flurry of fucks and charged out into the day, determined to meet Tatiana and retrieve the material.Of course I was fine.Except as I started walking down the sidewalk, I watched a truck veer from its lane, flatten a stop sign, desperately try to slow, momentarily redirect itself, and then in spite of all the brakes on that monster, all the accompanying smoke and ear puncturing shrieks, it still barreled straight into me.	Suddenly I understood what it meant to be weightless, flying through the air, no longer ruled by that happy dyad of gravity &107 mass until I was, landing on the roof of a parked car, which turned out to be my car, a good fifteen feet away, hearing the thud but not actually feeling it.	I even momentarily blacked out, but came to just in time to watch the truck, still hurtling towards me until it was actually slamming into me, causing me to think, and you're not going to believe this-еI can't believe this asshole just totaled my fucking car!	Of all the cars on this street and he had to fucking trash mine!е even as all that steel was grinding into me, instantly pulverizing my legs, my pelvis, the metal from the grill wedging forward like kitchen knives, severing me from the waist down.People started screaming. Though not about me.Something to do with the truck.It was leaking all over the place. Gas.It had caught fire.	I was going to burn. Except it wasn't gas.It was milk.Only there was no milk.	There was no gas.	No leak either.	There weren't even any people.	Certainly none who were screaming.	And there sure as hell wasn't any truck.		I was alone.	My street was empty.		A tree fell on me.	So heavy,  it took a crane to lift it.		Not even a crane could lift it.	There are no trees on my block.This has got to stop. I have to go.I did go.When I reached Tatiana's place, she'd just gotten back from the gym and her brown legs glistened with sweat.		She wore black Spandex shorts and a pink athletic halter top which was very tight but still could not conceal the ample size of her breasts.	I said еhelloе and then explained again how I had come into possession of the old man's papers and why in my effort to straighten them all out I needed to trace some of his  references.	She happily handed over the reading lists she'd compiledon his behalf and even dug up a few notes she'd made relating to the etymology of еlabor.еWhen she offered me a drink, I jokingly suggested a Jack and Coke.I guess she didn't understand my sense of humor or understood it perfectly.	She appeared with the drink and poured herself one as well.We spoke for another hour, ended up finishing all the Jack, and then right out of the blue she said, еI won't let you fuck me.е Time to get going, I tho ght, and began to stand up. Not that I'd expected anything mind you.еsut if you want,  you can come on me,е she added.	I sat back down and before I could think of something to say, she had tugged off her top and stretched herself out in the middle of the floor.	Her tits were round, hard and perfectly fake.	As I straddled her, she unbuttoned my pants.Then she reached for some extremely aromatic oil sitting on her coffee table.	She squeezed hard enough to release a thin stream.	It dripped off of me, a warm rain spilling down over her toned belly and large brown nipples.		Pleased with what she'd done, she settled back to watch me stroke & grind myself into my own hands.At one point she bit down on her lower lip and it amped me up even more.	When she started to caress her own breasts, small groans of pleasure rising up from her throat, I felt the come in my balls begin to boil.However only when I got ready to climax did I lose sight of her,my eyes slamming shut, something I believe now she'd been waiting for, a temporary instant of darkness, where vulnerable and blind to everything but my own pleasure, she could reach up beneath me and press the tip108 of an oil soaked finger against my asshole, circling, rubbing, until finally she pushed hard enough to exceed the threshold of resistance, slipping inside me and knowing exactly where to go too, heading straight for the prostate, the P spot, the LOUD button on this pumping stereophonic fuck system I never knew I had, initiating an almost unbearable scream for (and of) pleasure, endorphins spitting through my brain at an unheard of rate, as muscles in my groin (almost) painfully contracted in a handful of heart stomping spasms-not something I could say I was exactly prepared for.	I exploded.	A stream of white flying across her tits, strings of the stuff dripping off her nipples, collecting in pools around her neck, some ofit leading as far as her face, one gob of it on her chin, another on her lower lip.	She smiled, started to gently rub my semen into her black skin and then opened her mouth as if to sigh, only she didn't sigh,  no sound, not even a breath, just her moon bright teeth, and finally her tongue licking first her upper lip before turning to her lower lip, where, smiling, her eyes focused on mine, watching me watching her, she licked up and finally swallowed my come.Jlso sorry. 121rеm not sure why but I feel like I understand this on an entirelydifferent level. What I mean to say is that the weird encounter with Tatiana seems to have helped me somehow. As if getting off was all I needed to diminish some of this dread and panic. I guess Thumper wasright.	Of course the downside is that this new discovery has left me practically beside myself, by which I mean priapic.Last night,  I made the rounds.	I called Tatiana but she wasn't home.	Amber's machine picked up but I didn't leave a message.	Then as the hours lengthened and a particular heaviness crept in on me, I thought about Thumper.	In fact I almost went down to where she works,  to that place where I could be alone with the failing light and shadow play, where I could peek in ease, wlhurried, unmolested, a notion which as suddenly as it crossed my mind suddenly-and for no apparent reason either-made me feel terribly uncomfortable.	I called Lude instead.	He gave me Kyrie's115 number. No answer. Not even a machine picked up. I called Lude back andan hour later we were losing ourselves in pints of cider at Red.For some reason I had with me a little bit Zampano wrote about Natasha (See Appendix F). I found it some months ago and :immediately assumed she was an old love of his, which of course may still be true. Since then, however, I've begun to believe that Zampano's Natasha also lives in Tolstoy's guerrulous pages. (Yes, amazingly enough, I finally did get around to reading war and Peace.)Anyway, that evening, as coincidence would have it, a certainNatasha was dining on vegetables and wine. Rumor was-or so Lude confided; I've always loved the way Lude could 'confide' a rumor-her mother was famous but had been killed in a boating accident, unless you believed another rumor-which Lude also confided-that her father was the one who had been killed in a boating accident though he was not famous.What did it matter?Either way, Natasha was gorgeous. Tolstoy's prophecy brought to life.Lude and I quarreled over who would approach her first. Truth be known I didn еt have the courage. A few pints later though, I watched Lude weave over to her table. He had every advantage. He knew her. Could say 'hello' and not appear obscene. I watched, my glass permanently fixed to my mouth so I could drink continuously-though breathing proved a bit tricky.Lude was laughing, Natasha smiling, her friends working on their vegetables, their wine. But Lude stayed too long. I could see it  in the way she started looking at her friends, her plate, everywhere but at him. And then Lude said something. No doubt an attempt to save the aitch.Little did I know I was the one being sacrificed, that is until he started pointing over at the counter, at me.  And then suddenly she was looking over at the counter, at me. And neither one of them was smiling. I lifted the base of my glass high enough to eclipse my face and paid no mind to  the stream of cider spilling from either side, foaming in my lap. When I lowered my deception I saw Natasha hand Lude back a piece of paper he hadjust given her. Her smile was curt. She said very little. He continued thecharade, smiled quickly and departed.еsorry Hoss,е Lude said as he sat down, unaware that the scene had turned me to stone."You didn't just tell her that I wrote that for her, did you?" I finally stuttered."You bet. Hey, she liked it. Just not enough to dump her boyfriend.е"I didn't write that. A blind man wrote it,е I yelled at him, but it was too late. I finished my drink, and with my head down, got the hell out of there, leaving Lude behind to endure Natasha's pointed inattention.Heading east, I passed by Muse and stopped in at El Coyote where I drank tequila shots until an Australian gal started telling me about kangaroos and the Great Barrier Reef and then ordered something else, potent and green. A while ago, over a year? two years? she had seen a gathering there of very, very famous people speaking censorially of things most perverse. She told me this with great glee, her breasts bouncing around like giant pacmen. Who cared.  Fine by me.  Did she want to hear about Natasha?	Or at least what a blind man wrote?When I finally walked outside, I had no idea where I was, orange lights burning like sunspots, initiating weird riots in my head, while in the ink beyond a chorus of coyotes howled, or was that the traffic? and no sense of time either. We stumbled together to a corner and that's when the car pulled over, a white car? VW Rabbit? maybe/maybe not?	I strained to116 see what this was all about, my Australian gal giggling, both pacmen going crazy, she lived right around here somewhere but wasn't that funny, she couldn't remember exactly where, and me not  caring,  just  squinting, staring at the white? car as the window rolled down and a lovely face appeared, tired perhaps, uncertain too, but bright nonetheless with a wry smile on those sweet lips-Natasha leaning out of her car, еI guess love fades pretty fast, huh?е142 winking at me then, even as I shook my head,  as if that kind of emphatic shaking could actually prove something, like just how possible it is to fall so suddenly so hard, though for it to ever mean anything you have to remember, and I would remember, I would definitely remember, which I kept telling myself as that white? car, her car?,  sped off, bye-bye Natasha, whoever you are, wondering then if I would ever see her again, sensing I wouldn't, hoping senses were wrong but still not knowing; Love At First Sight having been written by a blind man,  albeit sly, passionate too?,  the blind man of all blind men, me,-don't know why I just wrote that-though I would still love her despite being Wlblind, even if I had all of a sudden started dreaming then of someone I'd never met before, or had known all along, no, not even Thumper-wow, am I wandering-maybe Natasha after all, so vague, so familiar, so strange,  but who really and why? though at least this much I could safely assume to be true, comforting really, a wild ode mentioned at New West hotel over wine infusions, light,  lit,  lofted on very entertaining moods,  yawning in return, open nights,  inviting everyone's song,  with me losing myself in such a dream, over and over again too, until that Australian gal shook my arm, shook it hard-еHey, where are you?ееLostе I muttered and started to laugh and then she laughed and I don't remember the rest.		I don't remember her door, all those stairs to the second story, the clatter we made making our way down the hall, never turning on the lights, the hall  lights or her room lights,  falling onto the futon on her floor.	I can't even remember how all our clothes came off, I couldn't get her bra off, she finally had to do that, her white bra, ahh the clasp was in front and I'd been struggling with the back,  which was when she let the pacmen out and ate me alive.Yeah I know,  the dots here don't really connect.	After all, how does one go from a piece of poetry to a heart wrenching beauty to the details of a drunken one night stand?	I mean even if you could connect those dots, which I don't think you can, what kind of picture would you really draw?There was something about her pussy.	I do remember that.	In fact it was amazing how hairy it was, thick coils of black hair, covering her,hiding her, though when fingered & licked still parting so readily for the feel of her, the taste of her, as she continued to sit on top of me, just straddling my mouth, and all the time easing slightly back,  pushing slightly forward, even when her legs began to tremble, still wanting me to keep exploring her like that,  with my fingers and my lips and my tongue, the layers of her warmth, the sweet  folds of her darkness,  over and over and over again.The rest I'm sure I don't remember though I know it went on likethat for a while.Up in the sky-high, Off to the side-eye, All of us now sigh,Right down the drain-ae. Just a ditty.	I guess.117 Later, I don't even know how much later, she said we'd been great and she felt great even though I didn't.	I didn't even know where I was, who she was, or how we'd done what she said we'd done.	I had to get out, but fuck the sun hurt my eyes, it split my head open, I dropped her number before I reached the corner,  then spent a quarter of an hour looking for my car.	Something was beginning to make me feel panicky and bad again.Maybe it was to have been that lost, to lose sense,  even a little bit about some event, and was I losing more than I knew, larger events? greater sense?	In fact all I had to hold onto at that moment as I cautiously pointed the old car to that place I had the gall to still call a home-never again-was her face, that wry smile, Natasha's, seen but unknown, found in a restaurant, lost on a street corner,  gone in a wind of traffic-as in еto wind something up.е	I looked at my hands.	I was holding onto the steering wheel so tightly, all my knuckles were shiny points of white, and my blinker was on, CLICK-click CLICK-click CLICK- click, so certain, so plain, so clear, and yet for all its mechanical conviction, blinking me in the wrong direction.142 _____________________________	_118